===== PAGE 1 =====
The Esoteric Order of Gamers
orderofgamers.com
High quality materials for the dedicated devotee of immersive, thematic tabletop games.
Game rules summaries, foamcore box plans, articles, interviews, reviews, videos, tutorials, forums 
– and lots more.
 @EOGamers    
 gplus.to/EOGamers    
 facebook.com/EOGamers    
 EsotericOrderGamers    
 instagram.com/orderofgamers 
SUPPORT  
 THE EOG 
 BY BECOMING AN 
 OFFICIAL   
 MEMBER
SIGN UP AT 
 ORDEROFGAMERS.COM

===== PAGE 2 =====
Game: 	
CYCLADES
Publisher: 	
Asmodee (2010)
Page 1: 	
Rules summary front
Page 2: 	
Rules summary back
Page 3: 	
Play reference front
Page 4: 	
Play reference back
Page 5: 	
Hades rules summary
Page 6: 	
Hades play reference front
Page 7: 	
Hades play reference back
Page 8: 	
Titans rules summary
Page 9: 	
Titans play reference
Page 10: 	
Monuments summary/reference
Page 11: 	
C3K play reference
v5
Oct 2017
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for additional reference. 
Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher and copyright holder, and does not 
benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the original game is copyrighted by the publisher and 
used without permission. This PDF may not be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use.

===== PAGE 3 =====
SETUP
Each player chooses a color and takes his screen,  
1 offering marker (2 in a 2 player game), 3 territory 
tokens, 8 fleets and 8 troops. Each player also takes  
5 gold pieces (GP) and hides them behind his screen.
Place the isles, troops and fleets according to the 
number of players, as indicated in the rules.
Shuffle the mythological creature cards and place 
them facedown on their board space. Place the 5 
creature figurines next to the discard pile (you cannot 
normally look in the discard pile during the game).
Place the philosopher cards and the priest cards on 
their board spaces.
Shuffle together the players’ offering markers and 
randomly place them on the first spaces of the game 
turn track. The 4 God tiles go next to the board, along 
with the building tiles, the metropolis tiles, the 2 dice, 
the prosperity markers and the unused gold pieces.
OVERVIEW
The game takes place over a series of cycles during 
which the players will:
1. 	Gather their revenue in GP (production of their 
isles + seafaring commerce)
2. 	Make offerings to the Gods (auction).
3. 	Depending on the God whose favor they obtained, 
perform actions specific to that God.
The goal of each player is to own 2 metropolises at 
the end of a cycle (either by building them and/or 
conquering them). 
CYCLE
1. mythological creatures
Update the mythological creature track to have 3 
visible creatures, one on each space. The GP under 
each space is the cost to use that creature during the 
action phase. 
1. 	Discard the creature on the 2 GP space if it  
wasn’t used during the previous round.
2. 	Move all other cards to the right.
3. 	Fill the remaining spaces by drawing new cards.
When the draw pile is empty, shuffle the discard pile 
to create a new draw pile.
During the very first cycle, draw the first mythological 
creature and place it faceup on the 4 GP space.
During the second cycle, if this creature has not been 
used, move it one square to the right and put the first 
creature from the draw pile faceup on the vacated 
space. If it was used, place the 2 first creatures from 
the draw pile on the 4 GP and 3 GP spaces.
2. The Gods
The 4 God tiles are shuffled and placed randomly on 
the 4 empty spaces above Apollo’s space. 
5 players: all 4 tiles are placed faceup.
4 players: the last of the 4 Gods is placed facedown; 
it will not be available for this cycle. During the 
following cycle, place this God faceup in the first 
space, and shuffle the other 3. Once again, the God 
placed in 4th place will be facedown and will become 
first God during the following cycle.
3 players: the first 2 Gods are placed faceup and the 
last 2 facedown. During the next cycle, the 2 Gods 
which were facedown are used. On the cycle following 
that, the 4 Gods are shuffled again to make 2 new 
random pairs.
3. Revenues
Each player receives 1 GP for each prosperity marker  
he controls. GP earned by the players is kept hidden.
4. Offerings
In playing order, each player chooses a God and 
places his offering marker on the space corresponding 
to the offering that the player wishes to make.
If an offering goes over 10, the player places one of 
his territory markers on the 10+ space. The offering 
marker then indicates any number beyond 10.
A God grants his favor only to the player who made 
the highest offering.
If a player has made an offering to an already chosen 
God, the offering must be higher than the one already 
taking place, and the player who made the previous 
offering must take his marker back and immediately 
bid on a different God.
The player thus outbid may outbid another player.  
Any such case must be resolved before the next player 
in the playing order places his offering marker. 
Any player may place his offering marker on Apollo’s 
space without cost; he does not require any offerings. 
Multiple players may choose Apollo in the same cycle. 
The first player to choose Apollo places his token on 
the 1 space, the second on the 2 space, etc.
The offering phase is over when each player has 
placed his marker on a God.
Each player pays the number of GP he offered,  
taking into account any possible reductions due to 
priest cards.
Players cannot make an offering they can’t afford.
5. Performing Actions
The player who won the offering bid on the first 
God can perform the actions specific to that God, 
and use a mythological creature, by paying the cost 
corresponding to each of those actions.
The free action of each god must be taken, and it 
must be completed first.
Call upon one or more mythological creatures  
(all Gods except Apollo)
Recruit (all Gods except Apollo)
Build (all Gods except Apollo)
Special action (all Gods except Athena and Apollo)
Increase revenue (Apollo)
Players may alternate actions (eg, recruit, build and 
recruit again).
When a player is done with his actions, he places 
his offering marker on the last free space of the turn 
track. The player who won the offering bid on the next 
God then performs his actions.
a. Call One or More Mythological Creatures
By paying the cost indicated under the card (minus 
any cost reductions due to temples) the player can 
take the corresponding creature card and apply its 
effect. Once used, the card is placed faceup in the 
discard pile.
The powers of the creatures must be used 
immediately. 
New creature cards are only placed on the board at 
the beginning of each cycle. The player who made the 
best offering to the first God gets to help himself first.
There is nothing to stop him from playing multiple 
creatures, so it is possible that the last few players of 
the cycle will no longer have any creatures available to 
them by the time their turn comes around.
b. Recruit
The main Gods allow players to recruit—depending 
on their specialty—a troop, a fleet, a priest or a 
philosopher for free, but also to recruit more in 
exchange for GP.
c. Build
A specific type of building is associated with each 
God, each building with a different effect.
A player may build the same type of building multiple 
times, even on the same isle, as long as he can afford 
the cost of 2 GP each.
Buildings are placed on the white squares of each 
isle.
d. Special Action
Some Gods grant special actions. During his turn, a 
player may perform these actions multiple times, as 
long as he has enough GP to afford them.
e. Apollo
Finally, the player(s) who have chosen Apollo play last 
and have a limited choice of actions. Playing Apollo is 
technically a way to skip one’s turn to save money.
6. End of the Round
Once every player has played and placed their offering 
marker on the turn track, the round is finished.
If one or more players own 2 metropolises, the game 
ends. Otherwise, a new cycle begins.

===== PAGE 4 =====
THE GODS
Poseidon
Recruit Fleets
Free fleet. You may purchase extra fleets: the second 
costs 1 GP, the third 2 GP, and the fourth 3 GP. You 
cannot purchase more than 3 extra fleets in a turn.
No player may have more than 8 fleets. Fleets must 
be built on sea spaces around isles you control. This 
space must either be empty or contain your fleets.
Build Port
A port gives a defensive bonus during sea-faring battles 
that take place on squares adjacent to the isle it is on.
Move Fleets
For 1 GP, you may choose fleets currently on the same 
sea space and move them a maximum of 3 spaces. 
You can add or abandon fleets during that movement.
If fleets enter a space occupied by enemy fleets, their 
movement ends and a battle begins immediately.
Ares
Recruit Troops
Free troop. You may purchase extra troops: the second 
costs 2 GP, the third 3 GP, and the fourth 4 GP. You 
cannot purchase more than 3 extra troops in a turn.
No player may have more than 8 troops. Troops must 
be placed on isles you control.
Build Fortress
A fortress gives a defensive bonus during land-based 
battles to troops on the same isle.
Move Troops
For 1 GP, you may move some or all of your troops on 
an isle to another isle connected by a chain of fleets 
of your color. If you land on an isle where enemy 
troops are present, a battle starts immediately. If you 
land on an isle free of troops, you claim it without a 
battle, even if the isle has a fortress.
If you move your last troop off an isle, you must leave 
a territory marker there. The isle belongs to you as 
long as no opponent lands there.
A player may not attack the last isle of another player, 
unless he can prove that he would win the game were 
he to sucessfully conquer the isle.
Zeus
Recruit Priests
Free priest. You may purchase a single extra priest for 
4 GP. Priests are kept in plain sight.
Each priest reduces the offering to be paid by 1 GP 
at the beginning of each cycle. No matter how many 
priests you have, you must pay at least 1 GP for your 
offering (only Apollo is free).
Build Temple
Each temple reduces the cost of buying a 
mythological creature by 1 GP. The price reduction of 
each temple can only be used once per cycle.  
No matter how many temples you own, you must still 
spend at least 1 GP to get a creature.
Change the Creatures
For 1 GP, you can discard an available creature card 
and replace it with the first card of the draw pile.
Athena
Recruit Philosophers
Free philosopher. You may purchase a single extra 
philosopher for 4 GP. Philosophers are kept in plain 
sight.
As soon as you get a fourth philosopher, you must 
immediately discard them to build a metropolis.
Build University
The university has no special effect.
Apollo
You get 1 GP if you control more than one isle,  
or 4 GP if you control a single isle.
You also place 1 prosperity marker on the isle of  
your choice. An isle can have several markers on it.
If more than one player has chosen Apollo during a 
single round, all earn the extra GP, but only the first 
player who chose Apollo gets a prosperity marker. 
BATTLE
Each player participating in battle rolls 1 die and 
adds the number of troops / fleets he has in the 
combat zone.
If the battle takes place on an isle where one or more 
fortresses have been built, the defender adds 1 to his 
for each fortress.
If the battle takes place on a sea space adjacent to 
an isle (or isles) where the defender has built one or 
more ports, the defender adds 1 for each port.
An isle is always considered to be a single space.
The player with the lowest result loses the first 
assault. He removes a troop / fleet from the battle and 
places it in his reserve (in front of his screen). If the 
result is a tie, both players lose a troop / fleet.
If both combatants still have troops / fleets, the 
defender can decide to retreat. If he does not (or 
cannot), the attacker can also retreat. If neither of the 
players retreat, a new assault takes place.
These steps are repeated until only one player is left 
in the combat zone. That player takes control of the 
isle or the sea space in which battle occurred.
If it was an isle, the winner also gets all buildings 
found on the isle.
Two armies may annihilate themselves at the same 
time. In the case of a land-based battle, the defender 
keeps his isle and a territory marker of his color on 
it. He still benefits from the revenues of that isle and 
the effects of buildings on it, but it will no longer 
be defended against a subsequent attack until he 
recruits new troops.
Retreating during a land-based battle
The player wishing to retreat must bring his troops 
back to an isle belonging to him and linked by fleets 
of his color to the one where battle occurred. If these 
conditions are not met, the troops cannot retreat.
Retreating during a sea-faring battle
The player wishing to retreat must move his fleets 
to an empty adjacent space or one he controls. If no 
space is available, the fleets cannot retreat.
THE METROPOLISES
Each isle has a space (dotted red square) reserved 
for a metropolis. There are two ways of creating a 
metropolis:
1. Economic Development
A player who owns all 4 types of buildings (port, 
fortress, temple and university), even if they are 
spread over many isles, must immediately discard 
them and replace them with a metropolis, which he 
places on an empty space on one of his isles.
If there are no free spaces, the player must destroy 
one or more of his buildings to free the space.
2. Intellectual Development
A player who has 4 philosophers must immediately 
discard them to earn a metropolis, which he places on 
an empty space on one of his isles.
If the only available space is occupied by buildings, 
the player must destroy them to free the space.
If a player only has one isle on which he already owns 
a metropolis, his 4 philosophers are discarded (the 
new metropolis ‘replaces’ the old one).
A player can also earn a metropolis by conquering an 
isle where one already exists.
A metropolis has the powers of all other buildings.
VICTORY
The game ends at the end of a cycle where at least 
one player owns 2 metropolises. That player wins.
If more than a single player ends the cycle with 
2 metropolises, the player who has the most GP 
remaining behind his screen wins.
2 PLAYER GAME
Each player takes the 2 offering markers of his 
color. Shuffle the 4 offering markers and place them 
randomly on the first spaces of the turn track.
Play exactly as detailed for 4 players, but each player 
must make offerings to 2 Gods instead of a single one 
(it is possible to outbid yourself).
Each player must be able to pay the entire cost of 
his offerings on both chosen Gods. A priest allows a 
player to save 1 GP on the sum of your offerings.
The game ends when one of the players owns 3 
(instead of 2) metropolises at the end of a cycle.

===== PAGE 5 =====
CYCLE
1. Mythological Creatures
Update the mythological creature track. 
Discard the 2 GP space creature if it wasn’t used, 
move all cards to the right, and draw cards for 
remaining spaces. 
The GP listed is the cost to use that creature 
during the action phase. 
2. Update Gods Track
Shuffle the 4 God tiles and place them randomly 
on the 4 empty spaces above Apollo’s space. 
3. Revenues
Each player gets 1 GP for each prosperity marker 
he controls. 
4. Offerings
In playing order indicated by the offering markers 
on the turn track, each player chooses a God and 
places his offering marker on the offering space he 
wishes to bid.
Apollo’s space has no cost. Multiple players may 
choose Apollo.
The offering phase is over when each player has 
placed his marker.
Each player pays the number of GP he offered, 
remembering reductions due to priest cards.
5. Performing Actions
The player who won the offering bid on the first 
God can perform the actions specific to his God, 
and may use a mythological creature, by paying the 
corresponding costs.
a. Call Mythological Creatures
b. Recruit
c. Build
d. Special action
e. Increase Revenue (Apollo only)
He then places his offering marker on the last free 
space of the turn track. 
The player who won the offering bid on the next 
God then performs his actions.
6. End of the Round
If one or more players own 2 metropolises, the 
game ends. 
A player who is the lone owner of 2 metropolises  
at the end of a cycle wins the game. If he is not 
the only one, the player owning 2 metropolises 
with the most GP wins.
POWERS OF THE GODS
	
POSEIDON
Recruit free fleet, + 1-3 fleets for 
extra GP.
Build port.
Move For 1 GP, move fleets on a 
space up to 3 spaces.
	
ARES
Recruit free troop, + 1-3 troops for 
extra GP.
Build fortress.
Move troops from one isle to 
another along a chain of fleets.
	
ZEUS
Recruit free priest, + 1 priest for 
an extra 4 GP.
Build temple.
Replace one mythological creature 
from the draw pile for 1 GP.
	
ATHENA
Recruit free philosopher, + 1 
philosopher for an extra 4 GP.
Build university.
	
APOLLO
Receive 1 GP (4 GP if you control 
only one isle); and 1 prosperity 
marker if you were the first to 
make an offering.
PRIESTS & PHILOSOPHERS
Priests Each priest reduces the offering to be paid 
at the beginning of each cycle by 1 GP (min 1).
Philosophers As soon as a player gains a fourth 
philosopher, he must immediately discard them to 
build a metropolis.
BUILDINGS
Port Defensive bonus of +1 during sea-faring 
battles taking place on spaces adjacent to the isle.
Fortress Defensive bonus of +1 during land-based 
battles taking place on the isle.
Temple Each temple reduces the cost to purchase 
a mythological creature by 1 GP once per cycle. 
At least 1 GP must be spent no matter the number 
of temples owned.
Metropolis Has the effect of all buildings.

===== PAGE 6 =====
CHIMERA
Choose a creature card from the 
discard pile, use it, then shuffle the 
discard pile back into the draw pile.
When Chimera arrives in the discard 
pile, whether used, discarded with 
Zeus, or unbought, re-shuffle the 
creature deck and the discard pile.
CYCLOPS
Replace one of your buildings with  
a building of another type.
DRYAD
Steal a priest from the player of your 
choice.
THE FATES
Receive your revenue again, as you 
do at the beginning of a cycle.
GIANT
Destroy a building (not a metropolis).
GRIFFON
Steal half the GP (round down)  
of another player of your choice.  
The chosen player must show his 
fortune to the other players.
HARPY
Remove a troop from the board and 
place it before its owner’s shield.
PEGASUS
Move some or all of the troops on 
one of your isles to another, without  
the necessity of a chain of fleets. 
SATYR
Steal a philosopher from the player 
of your choice.
SIREN
Replace an opponent’s fleet with one 
of yours. If you have none in reserve, 
you can take it from somewhere else 
on the board.
SPHINX
‘Re-sell’ your fleets, troops, priest 
cards and philosopher cards for 2 GP 
each. Return tokens to the reserve 
and cards to the draw pile.
SYLPH
You may move your fleets a total of 
10 spaces.
For the following creatures except 
the Kraken, place the figure on an 
isle of your choice. Its power applies 
to that isle until the beginning of 
your next turn. 
Two figures on the same isle destroy 
each other.
CHIRON (CENTAUR)
Chiron protects the isle from Pegasi, 
Giants, and Harpies. 
None of these creatures can be 
used against troops or buildings on 
this isle.
MEDUSA
Troops on the same isle cannot be 
moved. Troops may still be moved 
onto that isle.
MINOTAUR
The Minotaur counts as 2 troops to 
protect the isle where he is present, 
and he does not retreat.
During a battle, a player’s troops 
must be eliminated before the 
Minotaur. When he is the only one 
left, he is discarded if the defender 
loses another battle.
POLYPHEMUS (CYCLOPS)iron
All fleets adjacent to Polyphemus’ 
isle are pushed away one space and 
no fleet can land on the isle as long 
as he’s there.
The player who plays Polyphemus 
moves the fleets in the order and 
direction of his choice. Two fleets 
of different colors cannot be on the 
same space. 
If a movement is impossible, the 
fleet is destroyed.
THE KRAKEN
Place the Kraken on a sea space. 
If fleets are there, they are destroyed 
(return the tokens to their owner). 
For each extra GP spent to purchase 
the Kraken, you may move it one 
space. Every fleet encountered is 
destroyed.
At the end of its movement, the 
Kraken remains in place and that sea 
space is forbidden to all fleets until 
it moves again. The next player to 
use it may make it reappear on any 
sea space.
MYTHOLOGICAL CREATURES

===== PAGE 7 =====
MODULE 1: FREE POSITIONING
Requires only the original game components.
Follow the normal setup, except players receive 7 GP 
(instead of 5), and leave the board free of any military 
units. 
Then hold a preliminary round of betting to decide on 
which isles players will start the game.
Shuffle the God tiles (one less than the number of 
players) and place them on the empty slots located 
above Apollo.
Following the normal auction rules for positioning 
however, during the preliminary round, there can be 
only one player on Apollo.
Once the auction is ended, players pay their offerings, 
then chose the isles on which they will start the game; 
starting with the player who won the auction on the 
first God, and ending with one who chose Apollo.
In turn, you receive 2 troops + 2 fleets + a bonus 
depending on the God whose auction you won:
Poseidon: a fleet
Ares: a troop
Athena: a philosopher
Zeus: a priest
Apollo: a Prosperity marker
You must deploy your troops on at least 2 different 
isles. The player who bet on Ares may choose to start 
with a third isle, or to place 2 troops on one isle and 
one troop on the second isle.
You must then spread your fleets on 2 different 
locations which are adjacent to the isles where your 
troops are deployed. Your 2 fleets may be placed on 
2 different locations near the same isle. The player 
who bet on Poseidon may choose to start with a third 
location, or to place 2 fleets on one location and one 
fleet on the second location.
Once you have completed your deployment, place 
your marker on the last available slot to determine the 
order of play in the next round. 
The player who bet on the next God then deploys in 
the same fashion. 
The first round then begins. Skip the income phase in 
this first round.
2 Player Game
3 God tiles are placed in addition to Apollo. Each 
player plays with 2 Offering markers.
Once the auction is ended and paid, players are 
placed in the order of the offering markers.
When you remove your marker, immediately deploy 1 
fleet + 1 troop + the bonus given by the chosen God.
MODULE 2: HADES & HIS UNDEAD
At the beginning of a round, place the Hades tile next 
to the board with the Threat side up. Place the Hades 
column on the 0 space.
At the beginning of each round, before The Gods 
phase, a player rolls 2 combat dice and advances the 
column by the total number rolled.
If the column reaches or passes the 9th space, mix 
the God tiles and place them in the usual manner, 
then cover the tile of the active God placed just above 
Apollo with the Hades tile showing its Hades side.
At the end of the round (after the resolution of Apollo):
All undead units are removed from the board.
The Hades tile is placed back next to the board with 
its Threat side up, and the column on the 0 space.
HAdes
Recruit Undead (Troops and/or Fleets)
Free undead. You may purchase extra undead: the 
second costs 1 GP, the third 2 GP, the fourth 3 GP, 
and the fifth 4 GP. 
You cannot purchase more than 4 extra undead in a 
turn. You can purchase a mix of troops and fleets.
Build a Necropolis
There can be only one necropolis on the board. It must 
be built on an isle you control and it fills a site usually 
reserved for a metropolis (any other buildings already 
on this site, including a metropolis, are crushed).
For each regular military unit (not undead) eliminated 
from the board (in battle or by effect of a mythological 
creature) 1 GP is placed on the necropolis.
During the next Revenues phase, the player controlling 
the isle where the necropolis is located takes all the GP 
from the necropolis.
When Hades comes into play later in the game, you can 
build a new necropolis. Remove the necropolis from its 
current position (leaving any GP on the isle where they 
were placed) and place it on an isle you control. 
Move Troops and/or Fleets
The rules of movement and combat are the same as 
for the movements associated with Poseidon and Ares.
However at least one undead military unit must 
join each move (regular troops may join but are not 
mandatory).
During combat, if defeated, the player controlling 
Hades chooses the order in which he loses its military 
units (undead or regular units). 
MODULE 3: HEROES & CREATURES
At the start of the game, shuffle the new heroes and 
mythological creatures cards with the mythological 
creature cards from the base game.
There are 4 new mythological creatures: Cerberus 
(with figure), Charon, the Furies, and Empusa. There 
is also new card which replaces the original Chiron. 
Heroes come into play and are recruited in the same 
way as mythological creatures. However they are not 
mythological creatures, so temples do not provide a 
discount for their purchase; you cannot discard a Hero 
card through the special power of Zeus; and there may 
be several heroes on the same isle, and on the same 
isle as a creature figure. 
When a hero is recruited, place his figure on one of 
your isles and keep the card in front of you. This hero 
will remain in play as long as he lives and you pay his 
maintenance cost.
At the beginning of each round, just after the Revenues 
phase, you must pay 2 GP for each hero you want to 
keep. If you do not pay, the hero disappears: remove 
the hero’s card and figure from the game.
Each Hero is worth a troop figure in combat, but has 2 
additional abilities:
A military power of its own, active when the hero 
takes part in combat.
A special power, usually with its own conditions, 
if you decide to remove the hero’s card and figure 
from the game the hero during your Action phase.
You cannot sacrifice a hero during the turn he is 
recruited, and you cannot sacrifice a hero if you have 
selected Apollo. 
If a hero is killed in battle he cannot be sacrificed just 
before he dies. 
MODULE 4: DIVINE FAVORS
At the start of the game, stack the Priestess cards 
near the board. Shuffle the Magic Items cards and 
Divine Favors tiles and put them in facedown piles 
near the board.
You can discard a priestess to avoid paying the cost 
of maintaining a hero, or you can discard a priestess 
to not discard a creature figure and benefit from its 
effect for another turn.
At the beginning of each turn, during The Gods phase:
If Hades comes into play, re-shuffle all Divine 
Favors tiles (discarded or not) to form a new 
facedown pile. (Divine Favors are not available when 
Hades is active)
Otherwise, draw the top Divine Favors tile and place 
it faceup next to the active God immediately above 
Apollo. The player whose offerings win the favor of 
this God will benefit both from the advantages of 
this God and from the Divine Favor.
Each tile provides a Divine Favor bonus item (a 
Priestess or a Magic Item) and a power usable once 
during this Action phase. 
At the end of the Action phase, the Divine Favor tile is 
discarded (even if the player didn’t use its power).
Magic Items are gained through some Divine Favors 
tiles. They are are kept faceup by the player who 
claimed them, and may be used in the turn they are 
obtained or in the following round. Discard Magic 
Items after use.

===== PAGE 8 =====
CREATURES
CHARON
Hire a hero from among those
             
previously removed from the game. 
Penthesilea cannot be brought back 
if a player used her sacrificial power.
EMPUSA
Use only with the Hades module.
 
       
Steal all GP in the necropolis.
ERINYES
Take a prosperity marker from one
 
      
isle and transfer it to one of your 
isles (cornucopias printed on the 
board are not affected).
For the following creatures, place the figure on an 
isle of your choice. Its power applies to that isle until 
the beginning of your next turn. Two figures on the 
same isle destroy each other.
CERBERUS
During the Revenues phase, collect
  
   
the income from this isle instead of 
controlling it.
CHIRON (CENTAUR)
Replaces the one in the base game. 
   
The Centaur protects the isle from 
Pegasi, Giants, Harpies, Erinyes, 
Empusa, and the sacrificial power 
of Perseus. 
POWERS OF THE GODS
	
HADES
Recruit 1-5 undead units (troops 
and/or fleets).
Build necropolis.
Move Troops and/or fleets (with at 
least one undead).
PRIESTESS
Priestess Discard a priestess to avoid paying the cost 
of maintaining a hero. Discard a priestess to not 
discard a creature figure and benefit from its effect 
for another turn.
BUILDINGS
Necropolis For each regular military unit (not undead) 
eliminated, place 1 GP on the necropolis. During the 
next Revenues phase, the player controlling the isle 
takes all the GP from the necropolis.
Theater The theater can replace any other structure to 
obtain a metropolis, but it has no special effect.
HEROES
Just after the Revenues phase of each round, you 
must pay 2 GP for each hero you want to keep.
ACHILLES
	
Military power In battle, Achilles 
counts as 2 troops.
Sacrificial power If you have 4 isles 
when Achilles is sacrificed, build a 
metropolis on one of your isles.
HECTOR
	
Military power If Hector is attacked, 
the attacker loses a troop before the 
fight.
Sacrificial power When Hector is 
sacrificed, you can discard 2 priests 
to recruit 1 philosopher, or 5 priests 
to recruit 2 philosophers.
MIDAS
	
Military power During battle, you 
can pay 1 GP to re-roll your dice (as 
many times as desired).
Sacrificial power If you pay 15 GP 
when Midas is sacrificed, build a 
metropolis on one of your isles.
PENTHESILEA
	
Military power You win any ties 
rolled during battles (you do not lose 
any troops).
Sacrificial power If Penthesilea 
is sacrificed when you build a 
metropolis, put the building on 
Penthesilea’s card. This metropolis 
can never be captured.
PERSEUS
	
Military power When Perseus loses 
a battle round, he may let one troop 
retreat instead of destroying it (this 
can be used several times per round, 
but cannot be used on himself).
Sacrificial power When Perseus is 
sacrificed, you can move some or all 
of the troops present on his isle to 
any other isle that is not protected 
by a hero.
ULYSSES
	
Military power When Ulysses joins an 
attack, the defender gets no bonus 
for fortresses and/or metropolises.
Sacrificial power When Ulysses 
is sacrificed, you can build a 
metropolis using only 1 port + 1 
temple + 1 university.
HADES EXPANSION

===== PAGE 9 =====
APOLLO’S ARROWS
	
Play during a ground combat, 
whether in attack or defense, just 
before you roll the dice. 
	 	
For this battle assault only, roll an 
additional combat die and add its 
result to the regular die.
ARTEMIS’ ARROWS
	
Play during your turn. Remove a 
creature figure from the board (not a 
hero).
CHARIOT OF THE SUN
	
Play during your turn. Rearrange all 
your ground troops on your isles as 
you wish.
NECKLACE OF HARMONY
	
Play after all players have paid bids. 
	 	
You cannot be the target of any 
military strike (on the ground or at 
sea) until the end of turn.
PALACE ON MT OLYMPUS
	
Play just after the Gods are set up in 
the normal way. Rearrange the Gods 
in the order of your choice. Apollo 
must stay in the last position.
PANDORA’S BOX
	
Play during your turn. Steal a 
priestess from an opponent.
PELOP’S SCEPTRE
	
Play during your turn. Discard 
the top card of the creature deck. 
Continue until you discard a creature 
with a figure; that creature joins your 
side immediately. 
	 	
If you draw the Chimera, reshuffle 
the deck and resume drawing
POSEIDON’S TRIDENT
	
Play during a naval battle, in attack
 
or defense, just before you roll the 
dice. For this round only, roll an 
additional combat die and add its 
result to the regular die.
ZEUS’ AEGIS
	
Play  when rolling for the column on
 
the Hades tile (Threat side). 
	 	
After the roll, you can roll again and 
add or subtract the second result to 
the original roll. Move the column 
according to the total (even if the 
first roll reached 9).
DIVINE FAVOURS
ARTEMIS
	
Receive a Priestess. Once per turn, 
you may discard as many priests and 
philosophers as you want to recruit 
an equal number of troops or fleets.
APHRODITE
	
Receive a Priestess. Once per turn, 
you may double the number of 
troops present on one of your isles 
for 2 GP.
DIONYSUS
	
Receive a Magic Item. Once per 
turn, you may build a theater for  
2 GP.
DEMETER
	
Receive a Priestess. Once per turn, 
gain 1 GP for each isle you control.
HESTIA
	
Receive a Priestess. Once per turn, 
you may build a standard building 
for 2 GP.
HERA
	
Receive a Priestess. Once per turn, 
you may discard the top card of the 
creature deck for 2 GP. Continue 
until you discard a hero; that hero 
joins your side immediately. If you 
draw the Chimera, reshuffle the deck 
and resume drawing.
HEPHAESTUS
	
Receive a Magic Item. Once per 
turn, you may draw 2 additional 
Magic Item cards for 2 GP. Keep 
one facedown, return the other and 
reshuffle the draw pile.
HERMES
	
Receive a Magic Item. Once per 
turn you may place a Prosperity 
marker on any sea space where you 
have at least 1 fleet. This space will 
generate additional income during 
the revenues phase of each turn.
MAGIC ITEMS
APHRODITE’S BELT
	
Play once the God tiles have been 
reshuffled and put into place. You 
may prevent an opponent of your 
choice from placing an offering 
marker on the God of your choice for 
the duration of this round.

===== PAGE 10 =====
SETUP
The Titans expansion offers 2 game modes:
3 to 5 players: competitive, as per the base game.
4 or 6 players: team play (teams of 2). With 4 players, 
players can play competitively or in teams. With 6 
players, team play is mandatory.
Replace the base game board with the new board 
(use the appropriate side depending on the number 
of players). 
Players do not control islands, but different territories 
that are part of the same island and are equivalent 
to islands in the base game. Mythological creatures 
whose effects applied to an island in the base game 
now apply to a territory.
Take 1 of each building type (a port, a fortress, a 
temple and a university) and place them randomly 
on each building space (white square) that shows a 
building symbol. 
Kronos joins the Gods from the base game. Use the 
new offerings board.
6 players: Shuffle the 5 large God tiles and place 
them randomly on the 5 empty spaces above Apollo.
5 players: The last of the 5 Gods is placed facedown 
and is not be available for this cycle. During the 
following cycle, place this God in the first space, 
faceup, and shuffle the other 4. Once again, the God 
placed in 5th place will be facedown and becomes 
the first God during the following cycle.
4 players: The last 2 Gods are placed facedown and 
become the first 2 Gods during the next cycle.
3 players: The last 3 Gods are placed facedown. Two 
of them are randomly placed in the first 2 spaces 
during the next cycle.
The new board does not have predefined starting 
positions. Follow the base game setup; however 
players each receive 7 GP (instead of 5), and the 
board is left free of any military units.
A preliminary round of bidding is then held to decide 
on which territories players will start the game.
Shuffle the God tiles and place them on the Offerings 
board. As in the base game, there must be as many 
faceup Gods (including Apollo) as there are players.
Hold an auction following the normal auction rules, 
however during this preliminary round, there can be 
only 1 player on Apollo.
After the auction, players pay their offerings. They 
then chose the territories on which they will start the 
game, starting with the player who won the auction on 
the first God, and ending with the one who took Apollo.
Each player takes 2 troops, 2 fleets, and an additional 
bonus depending on the God whose auction he won:
Poseidon: 1 fleet and 1 port.
Ares: 1 troop and 1 fortress.
Zeus: 1 priest and 1 temple.
Athena: 1 philosopher and 1 university.
Kronos: 1 titan and 1 building or a second titan 
depending on Kronos’s position on the Offerings 
board.
Apollo: 1 GP and 1 prosperity marker.
The player who won the auction on the first God must 
then deploy his troops on 2 adjacent territories, even 
if he has 3 troops or a titan (it is therefore impossible 
to start the game on one of the smaller islands that 
are made of only 1 territory). 
He must then place his fleets on 2 sea spaces. 
These spaces must be adjacent to the 2 territories 
he occupies, even if he has 3 fleets. If the player 
received a building, he must then place it in one of 
his 2 territories. If the player decided to start in one 
of the territories that already contained a building, 
then it is possible for him to start the game with 2 
buildings.
Once a player has completed his deployment, he 
places his offering marker on the last available slot 
determining the order of play for the next round. 
The player who bet on the next God then deploys in 
the same fashion.
The player who took Apollo goes last and places a 
prosperity token on one of his 2 territories.
The game then begins as normal; however on the first 
round player will receive no income.
Setup: Divine Artifacts
At the start of the game, shuffle the 5 artifacts into 
the Mythological Creatures deck: these artifacts will 
appear on the creatures track during the game.
Setup: Special Metropolises
At the start of the game, randomly draw 2 special 
metropolis cards and place them faceup on the 
corresponding spaces in the corners of the board. The 
other 3 cards are not be used in the game.
KRONOS
Recruit Titan
You may spend 2 GP to purchase a titan, only once 
per turn. 
You can purchase 1 titan even if you received one as 
a free bonus this turn. A player cannot control more 
than 3 titans on the board.
Free Bonus
You get a free building of your choice among those 
offered by the Gods located above Kronos on the 
Offerings board. If Kronos occupies the first place, you 
get a free Titan instead of a building.
TITANS
In a battle, a titan counts as 1 troop. It must be 
placed on a territory that belongs to you, exactly like 
a troop obtained with Ares. If you have obtained the 
favors of Ares you can move your titans like normal 
troops.
However, moving a titan allows you to move any other 
troops that occupy the same territory. It costs 1 GP 
for the first move. You can then decide to perform 
a second titan move, with the same titan or with 
another, for 2 GP. A third move would then cost 3 GP, 
and so on.
Movement like this allows the army to move from 
one territory to an adjacent territory or to a territory 
connected by a chain of fleets of the army’s color.
When a titan, alone or moving with normal troops, 
enters an enemy territory, a battle starts immediately. 
The titan counts as 1 troop. If the owner of the titan 
loses 1 round of combat, he can decide whether to 
lose a normal troop or his titan if another troop is part 
of his army.
The Harpy cannot kill a titan, as it is not a normal troop.
A player who chooses Apollo during the offerings 
phase cannot move his titans.
TEAM PLAY
Teammates must start on different islands. 
Teammates sit next to each another so they can 
communicate. They can share how much gold they 
have, but cannot give each other GPs.
Play using the normal rules; each player controls his 
own units and nothing is shared between teammates.
A player may not cross or enter a teammate’s territory 
(even if it is empty), nor can he use his teammate’s 
fleets. However, teammates must collaborate to 
achieve the new goal of having 3 metropolises 
between the two of them.
When a team possesses 3 metropolises, the end of the 
game is triggered and players finish the current cycle.
The game will automatically end, even if that team 
loses its third metropolis. At the end of the cycle, the 
team that possesses the most metropolises wins the 
game. On a tie, the richest team wins.
As the base game, it is forbidden to attack a player’s 
last territory, unless it would allow the team to 
immediately gain the fifth artifact or build its third (or 
more) metropolis.
Military Victory
In team games, a metroplis may be gained by a 
military victory. If a player conquers an opponent’s 
last territory, he can immediately place a metropolis 
on it if: 
1.	that territory does not already contain a metropolis; 
2. 	that territory has the necessary dotted red square 
for a metropolis; and 
3. 	it would give the team its third (or more) metropolis.

===== PAGE 11 =====
THE LARGE CORNUCOPIA
	
During the revenues phase, every 
prosperity marker located in 
the same territory as the Large 
Cornucopia provides 2 GP.
Team play: the GPs provided by that territory can be 
freely distributed among the teammates.
THE WINGED SANDALS
	
During the revenues phase, this 
artifact provides 1 GP.
When troops located in the same territory as the 
Sandals are moving (due to Ares or to a titan), they 
can fly to any territory on the same island. 
They act as if every territory of the island were 
adjacent to their starting territory. The Sandals stay 
with the troops during this movement. 
Team play: the owner can pay 1 GP at the beginning 
of his turn to move the Sandals to one of his 
teammate’s territories anywhere on the board.
SPECIAL METROPOLISES
The first player to build a metropolis can take the 
card of his choice and place the corresponding tile in 
his territory. It has a special power in addition to the 
normal powers provided by a metropolis. 
The second player to build a metropolis takes the 
second card and its corresponding tile. Subsequent 
metropolises do not have special powers.
Each power is tied to its metropolis. If it is 
conquered, the new owner benefits from its powers 
(the former owner gives him the corresponding card).
MILITARY METROPOLIS
	
+3 defensive bonus in a ground 
battle, instead of +1.
SEASIDE METROPOLIS
	
+3 total bonus in a sea battle on 
adjacent sea spaces. This bonus can 
also be used when attacking.
RELIGIOUS METROPOLIS
	
Discount of 2 GP when buying a 
creature, instead of 1 GP. It acts as 
if it held 2 temples instead of one.
CULTURAL METROPOLIS
	
The owner of this metropolis can 
build new metropolises by using 3 
philosophers instead of 4. 
	 	
This power is mandatory.
COMMERCIAL METROPOLIS
	
Provides 2GP during the revenues 
phase.
POWERS OF THE GODS
	
KRONOS
Recruit titan for 2 GP, once per turn.
Build free building of choice from 
among those offered by Gods above 
Kronos. If first, free Titan.
DIVINE ARTIFACTS
An artifact can be bought like a creature during 
a player’s turn: keep the card and place the 
corresponding figurine in any one of your territories.
Artifacts can be moved with troops starting in the 
same territory. If you conquer a territory where 
artifacts are present, you gain control of them. The 
former owner must give you the corresponding cards.
The special power of Zeus does not allow for an 
artifact card to be discarded, and temples do not 
give a discount for buying an artifact. If an artifact 
has to be discarded because nobody bought it from 
the 2 GP space, return it to the box.
A player or team owning all 5 artifacts wins the game 
immediately (do not finish the current cycle). In team 
play, they can be owned by different teammates.
THE CADUCEUS
	
During the revenues phase, this 
artifact provides 1 GP.
When a battle occurs in the territory where the 
Caduceus is located, the controlling player can pay 
1 GP to prevent the destruction of one of his troops. 
He can use this power as many times as he wants 
during a turn, as long as he can pay for it.
Team play: the GP to save a troop can be paid by the 
owner’s teammate.
THE CAP OF INVISIBILITY
	
During the revenues phase, this 
artifact provides 1 GP.
Troops travelling with the Cap (due to Ares or to 
a titan) can use other players’ fleets or can pass 
through territories occupied by troops belonging to 
other players without needing to stop and battle. The 
Cap stays with the troops during this movement.
Team play: the owner can pay 1 GP at the beginning 
of his turn to move the Cap to one of his teammate’s 
territory anywhere on the board.
ZEUS’ LIGHTNING
	
During the revenues phase, this 
artifact provides 1 GP.
During the Offerings phase, if the player who owns 
the Lightning is outbid, the player who outbid him 
must pay him 1 GP. If he cannot pay, he is not 
allowed to bid on the same God.
Team play: the GP that is received by the owner 
when he is outbid can be given to his teammate.
TITANS EXPANSION

===== PAGE 12 =====
MONUMENTS
	
GREAT CITADEL OF ARES
As long as 1 or more of your troops 
are stationed on this territory, it 
cannot be invaded by sea, land 
(Titans) or air (Pegasus). It remains 
affected by other effects (Harpy, etc.)
	
GREAT LIGHTHOUSE OF 
POSEIDON
Any of your fleets destroyed in battle 
can be saved and placed on a sea 
space adjacent to this territory and 
either empty or controlled by you.  
If this is not possible, your fleets are 
removed from the board.
	
MILITARY ACADEMY
When you collect revenues, place a 
troop on this territory for free. If this 
is not possible, this monument does 
nothing this cycle.
	
ACADEMY OF NAVAL 
WARFARE
When you collect revenues, place 
a free fleet on a sea space that is 
adjacent to this territory and either 
empty or controlled by you. If this is 
not possible, this monument does 
nothing this cycle.
	
TEMPLE OF POSEIDON
Once per cycle, on your turn, you 
may remove one of your fleets from 
the board to draw the top card of the 
Mythological Creatures deck and use 
its effect.
	
TEMPLE OF ARES
Once per cycle, on your turn, you 
may remove one of your troops from 
the board to randomly draw a card 
from the Mythological Creatures 
discard pile and use its effect.
	
TEMPLE OF ATHENA
You pay 1 GP less to recruit priests 
and philosophers.
	
GREAT TEMPLE OF ZEUS
When your turn starts, update the 
Mythological Creature track as if it 
was the beginning of the cycle.
	
CITY OF WARRIORS
When defending this territory, all of 
your adjacent fleets count as troops. 
They are added to your die roll.
	
GREAT UNIVERSITY OF 
ATHENA
You may buy more than 1 
philosopher with Athena.
SETUP
Before the game starts, randomly draw a number 
of Monument cards equal to the number of players 
and place them faceup next to the board with 
their corresponding miniatures. These are the only 
monuments that players can build during that game. 
Return the other cards and miniatures to to the box.
CONSTRUCTION
As soon as you control 2 buildings shown on one 
of the available Monument cards, you build that 
Monument by taking its card and placing the 
corresponding miniature in one of your territories (a 
single land space).
Each monument can only be built once during the 
game.
Adding a monument can occur after the second 
building shown on a card is built, or after you take 
control of a territory where that building was already 
present. The 2 buildings used to build a monument 
stay on the board.
If you forget to build the monument when you have 
the opportunity, you may build it later if you still 
possess the 2 required buildings and if no one else 
built the monument before you. You do have to wait 
until you are resolving the actions of your god (being 
on Apollo does not allow you to do it).
A monument does not occupy a building space; it 
is placed in the territory like a figurine that will not 
move until the end of the game.
Each monument provides a special effect to the 
player who occupies the territory it is located in.
A player who takes control of a territory where there 
is a monument takes the corresponding card from its 
former owner. From now on, the new owner benefits 
from the effect of the monument. 
A monument does not count as buildings that can be 
used for the construction of a metropolis.
Giant The Giant cannot be used to destroy a 
monument.
Hades Expansion
Theater: Cannot be used to construct monuments. 
Necropolis and the temples of Poseidon and Ares: 
Removing a troop or a fleet leads to 1 GP being 
added to the Necropolis.
Necropolis and The Great Lighthouse of Poseidon: 
Saving a fleet leads to 1 GP not being added to the 
Necropolis.
Titans Expansion
With the Free Positioning rules, it is possible for 
players to start the game with 2 buildings in play, so 
a monumentcound be built right from the start. 
It is also possible to combine the effects of a special 
metropolis and a monument.
MONUMENTS EXPANSION

===== PAGE 13 =====
EGYPTIAN REINFORCEMENTS
These miniatures are considered to be elite Egyptian troops; they are not 
mythological creatures (Zeus’ special power and the effect of temples do 
not apply to them).
Egyptian reinforcements cards are added to the mythological creatures 
deck at the beginning of the game and are bought the same way.
When you acquire an Egyptian reinforcement, place the miniature on 
one of your islands. It is now considered a troop (and can be destroyed 
by the Harpy).
Egyptian reinforcements can be moved alone or with other standard 
troops when using the favors of Ares. In that case, they do not have any 
special ability and simply count as a troop. In the case of a lost fight, the 
Egyptian reinforcement is always destroyed last.
Special Attack
At any time during your turn, you may pay 1 GP to perform a special 
attack.
Move your Egyptian reinforcement, along with some or all of the troops 
on the same island, to another island, as if it were a movement done with 
Ares (ships are necessary). For this move or a possible battle, the troop 
benefits from the reinforcement’s special power.
Each Egyptian reinforcement can perform 1 special attack per turn.
It is not possible to perform a special attack when placed on Apollo.
THE ELEPHANT
	
The army led by the Elephant always rolls a 3 on its 
combat die.
THE MUMMY
	
Enemy troops destroyed in combat by the army led by the 
Mummy are immediately transformed into troops of the 
attacker. If that player does not have any troops left in 
his supply, there is no effect.
THE PHOENIX
	
When troops led by the Phoenix are destroyed in combat, 
they are immediately returned to play (on the island from 
which they attacked).
THE SCARAB
	
At the end of its movement, if it is not killed in battle, 
the Scarab can transform 1 building on its new island 
into another type of building.
THE SCORPION
	
When the scorpion arrives on an opponent’s island, 
immediately remove 1 enemy troop.
THE SNAKE
	
During its movement, the army led by the Snake can 
cross 1 empty seas space as though it contained a 
friendly ship.
THE SPHINX
	
The army led by the Sphinx can immediately teleport 
to an island already controlled by its owner before 
performing its move.
C3K EXPANSION
