RULEBOOK2
RULEBOOK
Dark Secrets Lie Hidden…
“What lay behind our joint love of shadows and marvels was, no
doubt, the ancient, mouldering, and subtly fearsome town in which we
lived—witch-cursed, legend-haunted Arkham, whose huddled, sagging
gambrel roofs and crumbling Georgian balustrades brood out the
centuries beside the darkly muttering Miskatonic.”
—H. P. Lovecraft, “The Thing on the Doorstep”
Game Overview
Arkham Horror: The Card Game is a cooperative Living Card Game®
(LCG®) in which one to four investigators work together to investigate
hidden mysteries and thwart wicked conspiracies brought on by the ancient
evils and servitors of the Cthulhu Mythos.
Each player takes on the role of a single investigator and plays with that
investigator’s deck. An investigator deck represents their talents, friends,
and assets, as well as their darkest fears and personal demons.
Investigators become involved in a broader narrative story, which plays
out over a series of scenarios. Each scenario is played as a separate game, in
which investigators move through and explore various locations, meet new
allies and enemies, look for clues that enable them to advance the story, and
attempt to overcome the dastardly forces arrayed against them. The actions
of the investigators in these discrete scenarios, in addition to their success
or failure, determine the eventual outcome of the campaign.
Throughout the campaign, each investigator gains experience, which
allows them to grow by adding more powerful cards to their deck.
However, their encounters with the Mythos also leave them changed,
bringing them closer to insanity or death. Investigators must protect
themselves against encroaching madness while attempting to survive and
solve the mystery at hand.
A Living Card Game
Arkham Horror: The Card Game is a cooperative game for up to four
players. One to four players can play using just the contents of this core
set. In addition, Arkham Horror: The Card Game is a Living Card Game®
(LCG®), and the experience of the game can be customized and enhanced
through the purchase of regularly released expansions. Expansions may
introduce new investigators, additional scenarios or campaigns, and new
player cards that add variety and depth to investigator decks. Unlike
collectible card games, all LCG expansions have a fixed distribution; there
is no randomization to their contents.
Using This Book
This rulebook is both an introduction to Arkham Horror: The Card Game
and a reference for the basic rules of how to play. The first third of the
rulebook should be used as a guide while learning and playing your first
game. We recommend new players start with the first scenario using the
pre-constructed decks described in “Starter Decks” on page 24. The
latter portion of this book contains an introduction to campaign play, rules
for customizing original decks, and an outline of essential rules. A glossary
of relevant terms, rules, and keywords necessary to play your first campaign
can be found in the appendices, and a quick reference of keywords, icons,
and important game symbols can be found on the back cover of this book.
Complete rules of play can be found in the Arkham Grimoire, which also
addresses more advanced topics such as the interpretation of card text,
the resolution of timing conflicts, frequently asked questions, and a list of
all keywords and other rules text. The Arkham Grimoire is a living rules
reference that can be found online at www.fantasyflightgames.com or by
scanning the QR code below:
Table of Contents
Components..........................................................................................3
Fundamental Concepts......................................................................4
First Game Setup .................................................................................6
Round Sequence: Investigation Phase ........................................ 11
Types of Actions................................................................................ 12
Skills and Skill Tests......................................................................... 15
Round Sequence: Enemy Phase.....................................................17
Round Sequence: Upkeep Phase ...................................................17
Round Sequence: Mythos Phase .................................................. 18
Campaign Play................................................................................... 21
Starter Deck Lists.............................................................................. 24
Deck Customization ........................................................................ 30
Changes From Previous Core Set..................................................31
Additional Rules and Fundamentals ........................................... 32
Card Anatomy.................................................................................... 34
Glossary of Terms and Keywords................................................. 38
Quick Reference................................................................................ 48
Changes from the Previous Core Set
If you are familiar with previous releases for Arkham Horror:
The Card Game, an overview of this core set’s changes and how
to use it is included on page 31.
Unpacking Your Cards
This core set contains nine packs of pre-sorted cards. The
following is an overview of the contents of these packs to assist
you as you open the cards.
Five packs each contain a playable starter deck for one of the
investigators you will use as you play the game. Three packs
contain the cards you will need to play the scenarios in the
core set campaign. Finally, there is an additional pack of player
cards that can be used to customize your investigator after you
have played the tutorial.
Details regarding which packs you will need to open for your
first game are on page 6 of this rulebook. Divider cards are also
provided to assist you in organizing your collection.3
RULEBOOK
Components
The components included in this core set are presented here for
identification purposes. A complete card anatomy can be found starting on
page 34 of this rulebook, or in the Arkham Grimoire online.
224 Player Cards
Actions
Each investigator may take up to three actions
during their turn. Available actions that may be
taken are:
= Draw 1 card.
= Gain 1 Resource.
= Activate an  ability on a card.
= Play an event or asset card from hand. (Fast
cards do not cost an action to play.)
= Move to a connecting location.
= Investigate your location.
= Engage an enemy at your location.
= Attempt to Evade an enemy engaged
with you.
= Fight an engaged enemy at your location.
= Parley an enemy at your location using a
card ability.
= Resign from the scenario using a card ability.
 or  card abilities do not cost an action
to activate.
Remember: If you are engaged with one or more
ready enemies, taking any action other than Evade,
Fight, or activating a Parley or Resign ability
provokes an attack of opportunity from each
ready enemy engaged with you.
Player Reference Card
Illus. Elijah Ring © 2026 FFG 18
ASSET
“Preparing for Armageddon seems insane
until it’s the end of the world!”
You get +1 .
 After you defeat an enemy, exhaust Logan
Hastings: Gain 1 resource.
Ally. Hunter.
Logan Hastings
Bounty Hunter
4
2 1
Asset Card
Illus. Rob Laskey © 2026 FFG 39
SKILL
If this skill test is successful while investigating
a location, discover 1 additional clue at
that location.
Practiced.
Deduction
A smaller piece of an even greater mystery.
Skill Card
Illus. Alexandr Elichev © 2026 FFG 65
EVENT
Fast. Play when you draw a non-weakness
treachery card.
Cancel that card’s revelation effect and take
1 horror.
Spell. Spirit.
Ward of Protection
1
Event Card
Illus. Chris Peuler © 2026 FFG 97
BASIC WEAKNESS
T R E A C H E RY
Wait…where am I? What was I doing?
Revelation – Choose and discard all but 1 card
from your hand.
Madness.
Amnesia
Weakness Card
133 Scenario Cards
SCENARIO
© 2026 FFG 1/11 105a
–3. If you fail by 2 or more, draw
the topmost copy of Fire! in the
encounter discard pile, if able.
–1. Reveal another token. If you
fail, take 1 damage.
–X. X is the current act number.
Spreading Flames
EASY / STANDARD
Scenario Reference Card
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113b
L O C AT I O N
The dorm is quickly filling with smoke.
: Engage. Choose an enemy at a
connecting location. That enemy moves to this
location and engages you. This action does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
2 2
Location Card (Revealed and Unrevealed)
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113a
L O C AT I O N
Your friend’s room is in utter disarray. But are these signs of a
weary mind, or of some kind of struggle?
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Enemy Card
Illus. Walter Brocca © 2026 FFG 1/3 124
T R E A C H E RY
Peril.
Revelation – You must either (choose one):
= Place 1 doom on the current agenda. This
effect can cause the agenda to advance.
= Take 1 direct damage and 1 direct horror.
Cosmic Evils gains surge.
Omen.
Cosmic Evils
Treachery Card
Illus. Nele Diel © 2026 FFG 2/11 106
Agenda 1a
The campus is strangely quiet, and there
is no sign of your friend. Hooded figures
cross the quad as nervous students scurry
under painfully bright streetlamps.
: Parley. Test  (2). If you
succeed, discard a Bystander enemy at
your location.
Past Curfew
3
Agenda Card
Illus. William Thomas Arnold © 2026 FFG 5/11 109
Act 1a
You are searching the dormitories for any
sign of your friend.
Objective – At the end of the round,
investigators may spend the requisite
clues, as a group, to advance.
Where There’s Smoke…
2
Act Card
Seeker
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 4
“I can’t stop now.
Not when I’m so close
to the truth.”
 After you successfully
investigate: Draw 1 card.
(Limit once per round.)
 effect: +1. If you succeed,
draw 1 card and gain
1 resource.
Detective.
Joe Diamond
The Private Investigator
2 4 4 2
7 7
44 Chaos Tokens Chaos Bag
38 Damage Tokens (1s and 3s)
24 Horror Tokens (1s and 3s) 5 Investigator Cards
51 Resource Tokens (1s, 3s, and 5s) 41 Clue/Doom Tokens
(double-sided) (1s and 3s)
5 Investigator
Mini-Cards
5 Investigator Tokens
(double-sided)
Lead Investigator Token
20 Connector Tokens4
RULEBOOK
Fundamental Concepts
This section introduces a number of fundamental concepts important to
learning and playing the game.
Winning and Losing
Each game is played as a single scenario during which the investigators
gather clues, explore their surroundings, and work to unravel a mystery.
Typically, a scenario ends by advancing the final act in the act deck or
the final agenda in the agenda deck. Advancing the act deck often results
in a favorable resolution (and can be considered a “win”); advancing the
agenda deck likely results in less favorable resolutions that may worsen the
investigators’ future odds for a positive ending. (For more information, see
“Scenario Resolution” on page 33.)
Scenario Decks
The story of each scenario is driven by three distinct decks of cards: the act,
agenda, and encounter decks. These decks provide the investigators with a
scenario-specific narrative, objectives, and situations, including a variety of
foes, hazards, and other perils.
The Act and Agenda Decks
The act deck represents the investigators’ progress in achieving their goals,
either by delving deeper into the mystery at hand or by accomplishing
specific objectives. Investigators want to advance the act deck to reach a
more favorable resolution for the scenario.
The agenda deck represents the progress made by the dark forces of the
Mythos. During the game, the agenda deck gradually progresses toward a
resolution that is unfavorable for the investigators. As a rule of thumb,
investigators want to prevent the final agenda from advancing!
Placed side by side, the act and agenda decks form the image of an open
book, and work together to form the plot of the current scenario.
Illus. Nele Diel © 2026 FFG 2/11 106
Agenda 1a
The campus is strangely quiet, and there
is no sign of your friend. Hooded figures
cross the quad as nervous students scurry
under painfully bright streetlamps.
: Parley. Test  (2). If you
succeed, discard a Bystander enemy at
your location.
Past Curfew
3
Agenda Card
Illus. William Thomas Arnold © 2026 FFG 5/11 109
Act 1a
You are searching the dormitories for any
sign of your friend.
Objective – At the end of the round,
investigators may spend the requisite
clues, as a group, to advance.
Where There’s Smoke…
2
Act Card
Encounter Deck
The perils, monsters, madnesses, and schemes that investigators must
overcome are contained in the encounter deck, in the form of enemy and
treachery cards. Throughout the scenario, investigators must draw
encounter cards from this deck and overcome them using the tools and
talents their investigator deck provides them.
Location Cards
Locations cards represent all the locales where investigators and enemies
may be located during a scenario. An investigator’s current location is
indicated by that investigator’s token or mini-card being placed on a
location card. Each location has two sides: a revealed side and an
unrevealed side. The unrevealed side can be identified by the presence of a
keyhole symbol below the location title.
A location enters play with its unrevealed side faceup. When an investigator
enters a location for the first time, it is revealed (turned to its revealed side),
and clues equal to that location’s clue value are placed on that location from
the token pool.
Locations also often include location connection icons. When building the
map, use the connector tokens included in this box to show which locations
are connected to each other.
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Enemy Card
Illus. Sara Biddle © 2026 FFG 3/4 126
T R E A C H E RY
They say curiosity killed the cat. But will it kill you, too?
Revelation – If you have no clues, Forbidden
Secrets gains surge. Otherwise, test  (3). For
each point you fail by, you must either place 1 of
your clues on your location, or take 1 horror.
Pact.
Forbidden Secrets
Treachery Card
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113a
L O C AT I O N
Your friend’s room is in utter disarray. But are these signs of a
weary mind, or of some kind of struggle?
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
Unrevealed Location
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113b
L O C AT I O N
The dorm is quickly filling with smoke.
: Engage. Choose an enemy at a
connecting location. That enemy moves to this
location and engages you. This action does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
2 2
Revealed LocationLead Investigator
The lead investigator (chosen during setup) is
the player who breaks ties and makes decisions
for the group each time there is a conflict. When
choosing which investigator token to use during
a scenario, the lead investigator uses the lead
investigator token in addition to (or instead of)
the investigator token of their chosen color.
When the players are required to make a choice among two or more equally
valid options (e.g., an enemy must move toward the “nearest investigator,” and
the two nearest investigators are an equal distance away), the lead investigator
chooses between the two options.
If the players cannot agree on a rules/timing conflict, the lead investigator
should choose the worst possible option for the players, and continue with
the game. (See “The Grim Rule” on page 32 for more information.)
“In Player Order”
The phrase “in player order” is used to dictate the order in which players
resolve or execute a game step. When players are instructed to do
something “in player order,” the lead investigator does so first, followed by
each other player, one player at a time, in clockwise order around the table.
Per Investigator ()
The  symbol next to a value multiplies that value by the number of
investigators who started the scenario. The number of clues placed on a
location and the number of clues necessary to advance the current act are
often denoted with this symbol. This symbol is also often used to indicate
the health values of particularly deadly foes the investigators may face.
Ready and Exhausted
Cards enter play in a “ready” position (upright, so that their ability text can
be read from left to right). Some game steps and card abilities require cards
to “exhaust,” which is indicated by rotating the card 90 degrees (sideways).
A card in the exhausted position cannot exhaust again until it is readied
(turned upright again) by a game step or card ability.
Chaos Bag
Throughout the game, the investigators are asked to randomly reveal
tokens from the chaos bag to modify their chances of success or failure in
a variety of situations. If an investigator reveals a token with a numerical
value during a skill test, apply its modifier to that investigator’s skill value
for that test. If a symbol is revealed, refer to the current scenario reference
card to determine that token’s effect.
Skill Tests
During the game, investigators frequently attempt skill tests to determine
the outcome of various situations. A skill test uses an investigator’s skills,
which are represented by four symbols found on their investigator card:
willpower (), intellect (), combat (), and agility (). The higher an
investigator’s skill value is, the greater their ability to perform tasks relating
to that skill.
When performing a skill test, an investigator compares their skill value
with the test difficulty and may use abilities or commit cards to increase
their skill value for that test. Then, one or more tokens are revealed from
the chaos bag, which further modify the skill value being tested. Finally,
the test outcome is determined: if that investigator’s total skill value is
equal to or exceeds the test’s difficulty, they succeed. A more detailed
explanation for skill tests can be found under “Skills and Skill Tests” on
page 15.
Æ Some card abilities designate the skill being tested with a skill icon
in parentheses next to the bold action designator. (For example,
“: Fight ()” indicates  is the skill being tested.)
Weakness Cards
A weakness card is a card in an investigator deck that has a negative effect
when drawn. These cards are identified by the label “Weakness” or “Basic
Weakness” beneath the card’s title or artwork. When one of these cards
is drawn, the investigator who drew the card must resolve its revelation
ability immediately. (See “Weakness” on page 46 for more details on
weakness cards.)
Lead Investigator
Token6
RULEBOOK
First Game Setup
To set up the first game of the Brethren of Ash campaign, perform the following steps in order.
The mechanic Daniela Reyes is willing
to step in harm’s way to protect those in
danger. She excels at retaliating against
enemies who attack her and her friends.
The steely-eyed Joe Diamond is a private
investigator. He is great at turning his clue
discovery into card draw, and has plenty
of tools to keep any threatening enemies
at bay.
Trish Scarborough is a former spy who
discovered far more than her superiors
wanted her to know. She specializes in
shaking off enemies and reaching new
locations to investigate.
Dexter Drake, the stage magician,
always wants to put on a show. With his
incredible dexterity and magical acumen,
he can pull new spells and assets out of
thin air, or he can make them vanish.
Isabelle Barnes is always on the run. She
is able to draw on her inner strength to
rise to any occasion and excels at pushing
herself past the limits of her abilities.
Choose Investigator(s): Each
player chooses an investigator
and takes that investigator’s
pack of cards. If playing solo,
Joe Diamond is the recommended
investigator choice.
Gather Decks: Each player opens their investigator’s
pack of cards, which includes an investigator card
and that investigator’s starter deck. Each player
places their investigator card faceup in their play
area, and then shuffles their starter deck. If the pack
is already opened, a complete list of the cards required for
each starter deck can be found starting on page 25.
Choose Lead Investigator: Choose one of the players to be
the lead investigator for this game, and give that player the
lead investigator token and the campaign guide. Then,
each player chooses either an investigator token or their
investigator mini-card to represent their position on the map.
The Investigators
Lead Investigator
Token
Set your investigator card aside and
shuffle your starter deck.
Campaign Guide
Investigator
Token
1 2 3
Seeker
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 4
“I can’t stop now.
Not when I’m so close
to the truth.”
 After you successfully
investigate: Draw 1 card.
(Limit once per round.)
 effect: +1. If you succeed,
draw 1 card and gain
1 resource.
Detective.
Joe Diamond
The Private Investigator
2 4 4 2
7 7
Rogue
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 7
You may take an additional
action during your turn, which
can only be used to evade.
 effect: +0. After this test
resolves, you may disengage
from each enemy and move to
a connecting location.
Agency. Criminal.
Trish Scarborough
The Former Spy
2 4 2 4
“You’re quite good,
but nobody can catch me.”
8 6
Mystic
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 10
“I’ll show you real magic.”
 After you play an asset:
Either return another non-story
asset you control to your hand,
or play a different asset from your
hand (paying its cost). (Limit
once per round.)
 effect: +1. You may return a
non-story asset at your location
to its owner’s hand.
Performer. Sorcerer.
Dexter Drake
The Magician
5 2 2 3
6 8
Survivor
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 13
 During a skill test you are
performing, take 1 direct horror:
Commit an eligible skill from
your discard pile to this test. After
this test resolves, shuffle that
card into your deck. (Limit once
per round.)
 effect: +1. If you succeed, heal
1 horror.
Chosen. Hunter.
Isabelle Barnes
The Returned
4 2 3 3
“My sister’s sacrifice
won’t be in vain.”
5 9
Daniela Reyes Joe Diamond
Trish Scarborough Dexter Drake
Isabelle Barnes
Guardian
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 1
“Those creatures are definitely
gonna know what hit ’em.”
 After an enemy attacks an
investigator at your location:
Fight that enemy (using either
a basic fight action or a Fight
ability on a card). (Limit once
per round.)
 effect: +1. Deal 1 damage to
an enemy at your location.
Warden. Worker.
Daniela Reyes
The Mechanic
3 2 5 2
9 57
RULEBOOK
Assemble Token Pool: Place all of the
damage tokens, horror tokens, clue/doom tokens,
connector tokens, and resource tokens
in separate piles within easy reach
of all investigators.
Assemble the Chaos Bag: Place the 16 chaos tokens shown
to the right into the chaos bag. Return the rest to the game box.
(When setting up future campaigns, your
preferred difficulty setting will include a
full list of which chaos tokens to use.)
Collect Starting Resources: Each
investigator takes five resources
from the token pool and places them
near their investigator card. This is
the resource pool of that investigator.
Draw Opening Hand: Each investigator draws five
cards from their deck. If a weakness card is drawn
at any time during setup, set it aside and draw an
additional card.
Each player may take a single mulligan at this time by setting aside
up to five of the cards just drawn. Then, they draw an equivalent
number of cards, setting aside any weaknesses as normal.
(A mulligan is recommended if a player has a poor starting hand.)
At the end of this step, all set-aside cards are shuffled back into
the investigator’s deck.
The token pool is the repository
for all tokens that are not in play.
Weaknesses are set aside, then shuffled
back into the deck at the end of the step.
4 5 6 78
RULEBOOK
Scenario Setup
The remaining setup steps contain scenario-specific information for the first scenario in the Brethren of Ash campaign. Open the campaign guide to page 3
and follow along with the setup instructions for the “Spreading Flames” scenario as you perform these following steps.
These instructions are written as though Joe and Isabelle were the two investigators in the game, but you may have different investigators or a different
number of players during your first game.
Gather Scenario Cards: Open the “Spreading Flames”
scenario pack. This pack contains all the cards required to
play the first scenario. If the pack is already opened, a list
of the encounter sets needed to play “Spreading Flames” is
presented to the right.
Each card included in any scenario is part of an encounter set, as
indicated by its encounter set icon. When setting up a scenario, refer
to the campaign guide in order to tell which encounter sets should be
gathered according to their encounter set symbols (explained below).
Set Agenda Deck:
Assemble the agenda
deck by stacking the
agenda cards from the
Spreading Flames encounter set
in sequential order so that “1a”
is on top, “2a” is next, etc. These
cards are: Past Curfew, Lit Up, and
Wild Flames.
Set Act Deck: Assemble
the act deck by stacking
the act cards from the
Spreading Flames
encounter set in sequential
order so that “1a” is on top, “2a” is
next, etc. These cards are: Where
There’s Smoke…, Escape the Dorms,
Searching For Dr. Armitage, and
Blaze of Glory.
Encounter Set Icons
To set up a scenario, players must gather all the
cards of each encounter set listed for that
scenario. Each of these sets is represented
by a specific encounter set icon.
When gathering encounter cards, gather all
copies of each card in the listed encounter sets.
Use the encounter set numbers (#/#) at the
bottom of each encounter card as reference.
Encounter Sets in Spreading Flames
This is a list of each encounter set and all cards required for the
“Spreading Flames” scenario:
Æ Spreading Flames (11 cards): #105–115
Æ Ashen Pilgrims (4 cards): #121–122
Æ Bystanders (3 cards): #123
Æ Cosmic Evils (3 cards): #124
Æ Eldritch Lore (4 cards): #125–126
Æ Fire! (7 cards): #129–130
Æ Hallucinations (4 cards): #127–128
Æ Mad Science (4 cards): #131–132
Æ Miskatonic University (5 cards): #116–120
8 9
109
RULEBOOK
Place Reference Card:
Place the scenario reference card
for “Spreading Flames” (#105) next
to the agenda deck. Flip it to the side
appropriate for your chosen difficulty.
Read Scenario Introduction: Read the
scenario introduction for “Spreading
Flames” followed by the text on the
faceup agenda and act cards (Past Curfew
and Where There’s Smoke…).
Place Investigators: Each investigator begins play in Your Friend’s
Room. Place each investigator’s token or mini-card on Your Friend’s
Room to represent their current location.
When the investigators are placed in Your Friend’s Room,
it is revealed. Since the standard rules for revealing a location are
to place clues on that location equal to its clue value, place
2 clues per investigator on that location.
Assemble Encounter Deck:
Following the scenario setup
instructions, set aside all five
copies of the Fire! treachery (#129),
the Servant of Flame (#114), and Dr. Henry
Armitage (#115). Then, take the remaining
encounter cards and shuffle them together to
create the encounter deck.
Place Locations: Following
the setup instructions on
page 3 of the campaign
guide, put Your Friend’s
Room (#113) into play, unrevealed
side faceup. (By default, locations enter
play unrevealed.) Then, set aside all of
the remaining locations.
11
14
15
13
12
The unrevealed side of a location can
be identified by the presence of a keyhole
symbol below its title.
Your Friend’s Room’s clue value is 2.
Clue tokens equal to two times the number of players
are placed on Your Friend’s Room when it is revealed.10
RULEBOOK
Joe’s
Discard Pile
Isabelle’s
Assets
Joe’s
Assets
Isabelle’s
Play Area
Isabelle’s
Discard Pile
Joe’s
Play Area
Location
(Your Friend’s Room)
Encounter
Discard Pile
Encounter
Deck
Scenario
Reference Card
Set-Aside Cards
Agenda Deck Act Deck
Out-of-Play Area
(Includes victory display, set-aside cards, etc.).
Isabelle’s
Investigator Token Joe’s
Investigator Token
Token Pool
*An investigator’s threat
area is where engaged
enemies, lingering threats,
injuries, hexes, and other
afflictions are placed.
Isabelle’s
Threat Area*
Joe’s
Threat Area*11
RULEBOOK
Round Sequence
Arkham Horror: The Card Game is played over a series of rounds. During
a round, the investigators confront the terrifying forces of the Mythos,
explore new and varied locations, square off against deadly foes, and finally
collect their bearings in anticipation of the next round. Each round is
divided into four phases:
1. Mythos Phase
2. Investigation Phase
3. Enemy Phase
4. Upkeep Phase
Reminder: During the first round of the game, skip the mythos phase
and begin with the investigation phase. The mythos phase is described on
page 18.
Once all four phases are complete, the round is over and play proceeds
to the mythos phase of the next round. Each phase is described in
detail below.
The Investigation Phase
In the investigation phase, the investigators take center stage. What
they choose to do depends on the circumstances and the investigator
in question.
During this phase, each investigator takes a separate turn. When the phase
begins, the investigators, as a group, choose which investigator takes the
first turn. When that investigator’s turn ends, choose another investigator
to take the next turn, and so on, until each investigator has taken their turn.
Investigators begin their turn with three available actions that may be used
to perform a variety of tasks. The active investigator may perform any of
the actions listed below as many times as they choose, and in any order,
provided they have the action(s) available to spend. On their turn, an
investigator may use an action to:
= Draw 1 card.
= Gain 1 Resource.
= Activate an  (action trigger) ability.
= Play an asset or event card from their hand.
= Move to a connecting location.
= Investigate their current location.
= Engage an enemy at their current location.
= Attempt to Evade an enemy engaged with them.
= Fight an engaged enemy at their current location.
= Parley an enemy at their current location using an  ability.
= Resign from the scenario using an  ability.
If an investigator is engaged with one or more ready enemies, performing
any action other than Evade, Fight, or activating an ability with either
a Parley or Resign designator in its text causes each of those enemies to
attack that investigator. This is called an attack of opportunity. (For more
information on enemy attacks, see “The Enemy Phase” on page 17.)
Each action is described in greater detail in the following pages. In
addition, a player reference card including player actions and round order is
included with each investigator deck.
An investigator may end their turn early if there are no other actions they
wish to perform. To indicate that an investigator’s turn is over, flip their
investigator token or mini-card facedown, to its grayed-out side. Unused
actions are forfeited and cannot be saved for future turns. After each
investigator has completed their turn, the investigation phase is over.
Proceed to the enemy phase.
First Scenario Tip
When the game begins, investigators are searching for their
friend at Miskatonic University. How should they proceed?
In this situation, some actions are better than others. If an
investigator has asset cards in hand that seem useful, that
investigator should consider using the Play action to play one
or two of those cards—this will ensure that the investigator is
prepared when an unexpected challenge or enemy comes their
way. In order to advance the act, investigators will need to find
2 clues, so keep in mind that your investigator will need to
Investigate or use other tricks to discover those clues from
their location!
Alternatively, the Draw action or the Resource action
could be useful in helping an investigator build up cards and
resources for later in the game.12
RULEBOOK
Types of Actions
The following are actions that players may perform during their turn. Some
actions are basic actions. (Basic actions are actions that can be taken without
activating a card ability or playing a card.)
Draw
Draw is a basic action. An investigator using this action draws one card
from the top of their deck.
Note: If an investigator would draw the top card of their deck and that deck is
empty, they take 1 horror and shuffle their discard pile into their deck, then
draw the top card of the reshuffled deck.
Resource
Resource is a basic action. An investigator using this action gains one
resource from the token pool. (Resources are often used to pay for cards
and effects.)
Strategy tip: Spending actions to draw cards and gain resources can be effective
when you have a specific card you need to play, but it is often time-consuming
and inefficient compared to card abilities. Use these actions when you aren’t
sure what to do, or as a last resort!
Activate
Activate is an action. An investigator using this action resolves an 
(action trigger) ability on a card in play that is under their control, on their
location or an encounter card at their location, or on the current act or
agenda card. Abilities on cards not in play (such as in an investigator’s hand
or discard pile) cannot be activated in this way unless otherwise stated.
Note that some activation abilities may cost more than 1  to resolve.
Seeker
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 4
“I can’t stop now.
Not when I’m so close
to the truth.”
 After you successfully
investigate: Draw 1 card.
(Limit once per round.)
 effect: +1. If you succeed,
draw 1 card and gain
1 resource.
Detective.
Joe Diamond
The Private Investigator
2 4 4 2
7 7
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 19
ASSET
Uses (4 ammo).
 Spend 1 ammo: Fight (). You get +1  and
deal +1 damage for this attack.
Item. Weapon. Firearm.
3 M1911
Play
Play is an action. An investigator using this action selects an asset or event
card in their hand, pays its resource cost, and plays it. A card’s resource cost
and cardtype are found in its upper left corner.
To pay a resource cost, the investigator playing the card must move a
number of resources equal to its cost from their resource pool to the
general token pool.
The rules for playing each cardtype are as follows:
= If the played card is an event card, the investigator resolves its
effects, then places it in their discard pile.
= If the played card is an asset card, the investigator places it in their
play area. It remains in play until an ability or game effect removes it.
= Skill cards are not played. For their abilities and icons to be used,
these cards must be committed from an investigator’s hand to a skill
test. (See “Modifying Skill Values for Skill Tests” on page 15.)
Note: Cards with the “ fast” keyword do not cost an action to play.
The Meat Cleaver is an
asset that costs 3 resources.
Illus. Rob Laskey © 2026 FFG 77
ASSET
: Fight (). You get +1  for this attack (+2
instead if you have 3 or fewer remaining sanity). If
this attack defeats an enemy, you may heal 1 horror.
 When you trigger the above  ability, take
1 horror: This attack deals +1 damage.
Item. Weapon. Melee.
3 Meat Cleaver
Equipment Slots
Slots restrict the number of asset cards of a specific category an
investigator can have in play simultaneously. The slots
available to an investigator are: 1 accessory slot, 1 head slot,
1 body slot, 1 ally slot, 2 hand slots, and 2 arcane slots.
The icons above indicate that an asset counts against an
investigator’s capacity for the indicated slot(s). If an asset has
no slot symbols on it, it does not take up any slots.
If an investigator wishes to play or gains control of an asset and
lacks the appropriate slot, that investigator must choose and
discard an asset or assets under their control to make room for
the newly acquired asset.
1 accessory slot 1 head slot
1 body slot 1 ally slot
1 hand slot 2 hand slots
1 arcane slot 2 arcane slots13
RULEBOOK
Move
Move is a basic action. An investigator using this action moves to a
connecting location. Move that investigator’s token or mini-card to any
location marked as a connection on the investigator’s current location.
A location’s connections are indicated by the icons at the bottom of the
location card, each of which match an identical icon in the title area of one
or more connecting locations (see below). If the location the investigator
moves into was previously unrevealed, flip it to its revealed side. Remember
to place the indicated number of clues on the location when this occurs (see
“Location Cards” on page 4).
Use the included connector tokens to indicate which locations are
connected to which.
Note: Some location connections may change when a location is revealed,
symbolizing a locked door or one-way journey!
Investigate
Investigate is a basic action. An investigator using this action investigates
their current location in an attempt to find clues. The investigator performs
an intellect () test against the shroud value of that location.
If the investigator succeeds, that investigator discovers one clue from the
location. When an investigator discovers a clue from a location, that player
takes one clue from the location and places it on their investigator card.
If the investigator fails, no clues are discovered.
Isabelle Barnes moves from Your Friend’s Room to the
Dormitories. The two location connections are indicated
by the connection icons and the connector token.
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG
L O C AT I O N
Recently renovated, the dormitories boast some of
the best modern conveniences, including air conditioning,
flush toilets, and a communal ice box.
Miskatonic.
Dormitories
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113b
L O C AT I O N
The dorm is quickly filling with smoke.
: Engage. Choose an enemy at a
connecting location. That enemy moves to this
location and engages you. This action does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
2 2
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG
L O C AT I O N
Recently renovated, the dormitories boast some of
the best modern conveniences, including air conditioning,
flush toilets, and a communal ice box.
Miskatonic.
Dormitories
Shroud Value
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113b
L O C AT I O N
The dorm is quickly filling with smoke.
: Engage. Choose an enemy at a
connecting location. That enemy moves to this
location and engages you. This action does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
2 2
Engage
Engage is a basic action. An investigator using this action engages one
enemy that is at their location (either not currently engaged with an
investigator or currently engaged with another investigator). To engage an
enemy, the investigator places that enemy in their threat area.
The engage action is particularly effective when dealing with aloof enemies.
Aloof enemies cannot be attacked or evaded unless they are engaged with
an investigator (See “Enemy Keywords and Engagement” on page 14).
Strategy tip: Engaging enemies allows you to evade them or safely attack them
without risking hitting your partner. Use this action to take the heat off your
fellow investigators!
Determining Skills for Skill Tests
Several basic actions require an investigator to test a specific
skill against a difficulty value, indicated on the targeted card.
These are as follows:
Æ Fight (). An investigator tests their combat value against
the target enemy’s fight value.
Æ Evade (). An investigator tests their agility value against
the target enemy’s evade value.
Æ Investigate (). An investigator tests their intellect value
against their location’s shroud value.
Other actions, such as a fight action on a weapon or an
investigate action on a tool, may indicate a different skill that
the investigator must test when resolving its ability. This is
indicated by the symbol in parentheses after the bolded action.
Example: Cosmic Flame has the ability “: Fight (). […],”
indicating that the investigator must test their willpower instead of
their combat value for this test.14
RULEBOOK
Evade
Evade is a basic action. An investigator using this action attempts to evade
one enemy they are engaged with. The investigator performs an agility ()
test against that enemy’s evade value.
If the investigator succeeds, that investigator evades the targeted enemy;
the enemy is exhausted, and the engagement is broken. Move that enemy
card from the investigator’s threat area to the investigator’s current location
to mark that it is no longer engaged with that investigator.
If the investigator fails, the enemy is not evaded and remains ready and
engaged with the investigator.
Some enemies have the alert keyword, which makes evading them more
dangerous. (See “Enemy Keywords and Engagement” to the right.)
Strategy tip: Evading enemies can be crucial to success. Exhausted enemies do
not automatically engage investigators, do not perform attacks of opportunity,
and do not attack during the enemy phase. If you are unarmed or need to get
away from a deadly enemy, consider evading it instead of performing an attack
you know you are more than likely to fail.
Fight
Fight is a basic action. An investigator using this action attacks one enemy
that is at their current location. That investigator performs a combat ()
test against that enemy’s fight value.
If the investigator succeeds, that investigator deals one damage to the
attacked enemy. Some weapons, spells, or other special attacks may modify
the amount of damage dealt. Place a number of damage tokens on the
enemy equal to the amount of damage dealt. If, at any time, an enemy has
damage on it equal to, or greater than, its health, that enemy is defeated
and placed in the encounter discard pile. If the bottom of the enemy’s text
box indicates that it provides victory points (indicated by the “Victory X”
keyword), place the card in a set-aside area instead of discarding it; that
card is considered to be “in the victory display.”
If the investigator fails, no damage is dealt to the attacked enemy. If that
enemy is engaged with another investigator, any damage that would have
been dealt to the enemy is dealt to the engaged investigator, instead.
Some enemies have the retaliate keyword, which makes fighting them more
dangerous. (See “Enemy Keywords and Engagement” to the right.)
Enemy
Evade Value
Illus. João Bosco © 2026 FFG 1/4 121
E N E M Y
“By flame and blade, in shade and blood
Our queen reborn after the flood.”
—Edict of Ash, Vol XIX
Retaliate.
Humanoid. Cultist.
Cantor of Flame
2 2 2
Illus. João Bosco © 2026 FFG 1/4 121
E N E M Y
“By flame and blade, in shade and blood
Our queen reborn after the flood.”
—Edict of Ash, Vol XIX
Retaliate.
Humanoid. Cultist.
Cantor of Flame
2 2 2
Illus. João Bosco © 2026 FFG 1/4 121
E N E M Y
“By flame and blade, in shade and blood
Our queen reborn after the flood.”
—Edict of Ash, Vol XIX
Retaliate.
Humanoid. Cultist.
Cantor of Flame
2 2 2
Illus. João Bosco © 2026 FFG 1/4 121
E N E M Y
“By flame and blade, in shade and blood
Our queen reborn after the flood.”
—Edict of Ash, Vol XIX
Retaliate.
Humanoid. Cultist.
Cantor of Flame
2 2 2
Enemy
Fight Value
Enemy
Health Value
Parley
Parley is a play or activate action that represents an investigator’s attempt to
create a distraction and/or talk their way out of a situation.
A parley action is connoted by a bold action designator and does not not
trigger attacks of opportunity when used. This action type appears on some
player cards and/or scenario card abilities.
Each parley ability is unique and may involve a skill test. Parley abilities
require an enemy to be present at the performing investigator’s location
unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Resign
Resign is a play or activate action that allows investigators to remove
themselves from the current scenario.
A resign action is connoted by a bold action designator and does not trigger
attacks of opportunity when used. When an investigator resigns, place all
of their clues and/or scenario-specific tokens on their current location.
That investigator is removed from the game and can no longer take actions
or be defeated.
Important note: Removing an investigator from the game does not change
the  (per investigator) value. (For example If an investigator resigns from a
four-player game, the number of investigators indicated by the  symbol is still
four, not three.)
Trish Scarborough parleys an
enemy using this card’s
Parley ability
Illus. Nia Kovalevski © 2026 FFG 5/6 143
E N E M Y
Aloof. (This enemy does not automatically
engage investigators at its location.)
: Parley. Test  (X), where X is the number
of clues on Abigail Foreman’s location. If you
succeed, place 1 clue (from the token pool) on
Abigail Foreman’s location. ( 5).
Humanoid. Miskatonic. Elite.
Abigail Foreman
Wary Librarian
Victory 1.
2 4 4
Illus. Nia Kovalevski © 2026 FFG 5/6 143
E N E M Y
Aloof. (This enemy does not automatically
engage investigators at its location.)
: Parley. Test  (X), where X is the number
of clues on Abigail Foreman’s location. If you
succeed, place 1 clue (from the token pool) on
Abigail Foreman’s location. ( 5).
Humanoid. Miskatonic. Elite.
Abigail Foreman
Wary Librarian
Victory 1.
2 4 4
WARNING!
Enemy Keywords and Engagement
Pay particular attention to enemy keywords and with whom an
enemy is engaged when attempting to fight or evade.
Æ If an investigator fails a combat test against an enemy
engaged with another investigator, any damage that
would have been dealt to that enemy is instead dealt to the
engaged investigator.
Æ If an investigator fails a combat test targeting a ready
enemy with the retaliate keyword, the targeted enemy
attacks that investigator. (See “Retaliate” on page 44.)
Æ If an investigator fails an evasion test targeting a ready
enemy with the alert keyword, the targeted enemy attacks
that investigator. (See “Alert” on page 38.)
Æ An enemy with the aloof keyword does not automatically
engage investigators. Thus, an aloof enemy cannot be
targeted by investigators for a combat or evasion test
unless they are engaged with an investigator. (See “Aloof”
on page 38.)
Æ Regardless of whether or not an attack succeeds or
fails, a ready enemy with the elusive keyword flees to a
connecting location. (See “Elusive” on page 41.)15
RULEBOOK
Skills and Skill Tests
Each investigator has four skills: willpower (), intellect (), combat (),
and agility (). The higher an investigator’s skill value is, the greater their
ability to perform tasks relating to that skill.
A number of situations require an investigator to make a skill test. A skill
test pits the investigator’s value in a specified skill against a difficulty
value determined by the ability or effect that initiated the test. To
perform a skill test, an investigator reveals a random chaos token from
the chaos bag, which modifies their skill value. If the modified skill value
equals or exceeds the test’s difficulty, they succeed. If not, they fail. The
consequences of success or failure are provided by the ability or effect that
initiated the test.
Skill Test Indicators
When performing a basic action such as Fight, Evade, or Investigate, the
skills being tested are , , and , respectively.
Some card abilities have bolded action designators. Each bolded action
designator indicates the skill being tested in parentheses after the indicated
action type.
Æ A card that reads, “: Fight (),” indicates that the investigator who
triggered it must use their  during the skill test.
Æ A card that indicates ( or ) in its  ability indicates that the
investigator who triggered it may choose which of the indicated skills
to use during the skill test.
Modifying Skill Values for Skill Tests
Before drawing a chaos token for a skill test, the investigator may boost
their skill value. There are two ways to do this:
First, the investigator may commit eligible cards from their hand to the
test. An eligible card bears one or more icons matching the skill being
tested. A wild icon () matches any skill. Each matching icon committed
increases that investigator’s skill value by 1 for that test. The investigator
performing the test may commit any number of cards from their hand to
the test. Each other investigator at the same location as that investigator
may commit one card from their hand to help.
Do not pay a card’s resource cost when committing it to a skill test.
In addition, investigators may activate  (free triggered) abilities
during a skill test player window (indicated in the “Skill Test Timing”
graphic on the next page), which may modify the performing investigator’s
skill value for that test.
A revealed chaos token may also modify an investigator’s skill value, as
described in the next section.
Revealing Chaos Tokens for a Skill Test
After committing cards and activating  abilities for the skill test, the
performing investigator reveals a single chaos token from the chaos bag.
Each chaos token has a numerical modifier that influences the outcome of
the skill test. The revealed chaos token’s modifier is applied to the
investigator’s skill value for this test. Symbol tokens have additional effects,
as described below.
If a , , , or  token is drawn, refer to the scenario reference card and
resolve the corresponding effect.
If an  token is drawn, refer to your investigator card
and resolve your investigator’s  effect.
If an  token is drawn, this test automatically fails.
Regardless of the investigator’s skill value, modifiers,
or the test difficulty, the investigator’s modified skill
value is considered to be 0.
Concluding a Skill Test
Upon calculating the investigator’s modified skill value, that investigator
either succeeds or fails the skill test and resolves all of its effects. Some skill
cards have an ability that resolves upon the completion of a skill test if the
skill card is committed to that test.
Upon completion of a skill test, discard all player cards committed to that
test and return the revealed chaos token to the chaos bag.
Skull Token Cultist Token Tablet Token Elder Thing Token
Elder Sign Token
Autofail Token
Illus. Rob Laskey © 2026 FFG 93
SKILL
At last, I’ve found it!
Max 1 committed per skill test.
If this test is successful, the performing investigator
draws 1 card.
Practiced.
Perception
Skill Icons16
RULEBOOK
Skill Test Example
Dexter Drake draws the Noxious Smoke treachery, which reads:
“Revelation – Test  or  (3). Take 1 damage for each point
you fail by.”
In Step 1, Dexter determines the skill to be tested. In this case,
Dexter’s willpower () value is 5, and his agility () value is 3, so
he chooses his willpower for this test.
Investigators commit cards to a skill test during Step 2.
Unfortunately, Dexter has no remaining cards in hand and cannot
commit skill icons to the test! Luckily, Isabelle Barnes is also at his
location, and she decides to commit a card with one  icon to the
test. This gives Dexter a +1 bonus to his willpower skill for the test.
Upon reaching Step 3, Dexter pulls a chaos token at random from
the chaos bag and reveals a “–3.” If the chaos token had been a
symbol, he would resolve any effects during Step 4. However, in
this case, the chaos token only applies a numerical modifier.
For Step 5, the chaos token’s modifier is applied to Dexter’s
willpower value for the test. His value is 5 (from his base value)
+1 (from Isabelle’s card) and –3 from the chaos token, bringing
his total skill value to 3! Because Dexter’s skill value is equal to the
skill test’s 3 difficulty, he succeeds!
After determining whether or not he succeeded in Step 6, Dexter
applies the results of the successful test in Step 7. The revealed
chaos token is returned to the chaos bag and the skill test ends in
Step 8. Noxious Smoke’s effects have resolved and it is discarded
with no effect. If Isabelle had not been around to commit the card
to his test, Dexter would have failed and taken 1 damage!
Skill Test Timing
The following is a step-by-step outline of a skill test to use when performing
a skill test. The Player Window steps indicate when investigators may
trigger  abilities.
Step 1: Determine the skill to be tested.
Skill test begins.
Step 2: Commit cards from
hand to skill test.
Step 4: Resolve chaos
token symbol effect(s).
Step 5: Determine investigator’s
modified skill value.
Step 6: Determine
success/failure of skill test.
Step 3: Reveal chaos token(s).
 Player Window
 Player Window
Step 7: Apply skill test results.
Step 8: Skill test ends.17
RULEBOOK
The Enemy Phase
In the enemy phase, the enemies come for the investigators, and if they are
able, they attack!
If there are no enemies in play, proceed to the upkeep phase. Otherwise,
resolve the following steps in order:
1. Enemies move. Each ready enemy with the hunter or patrol
keyword moves during the enemy phase according to their keyword
instructions, as described below.
= Ready enemies with the hunter keyword move once to a connecting
location, in the direction of the nearest investigator.
= Ready enemies with the patrol keyword move once to a connecting
location, in the direction of their target (indicated in parentheses
next to the patrol keyword). The patrol keyword may target a specific
direction, a specified location, or a particular scenario card (such as
an enemy or treachery).
= If an enemy moves to a location with one or more investigators, that
enemy immediately engages one of those investigators (see “Enemy
Engagement” on page 19).
= Note that exhausted enemies, enemies that are already engaged, and
hunter enemies at a location with one or more investigators do not move.
2. Enemies attack. Each ready, engaged enemy makes an attack against
the investigator with whom it is engaged. If more than one investigator
is engaged with an enemy, investigators resolve enemy attacks in player
order. An investigator engaged with more than one enemy decides the
order in which those enemies attack.
= When an enemy attacks, deal both its damage and its horror,
simultaneously, to the engaged investigator (see “Damage and
Horror” to the right).
The amount of damage and horror dealt by an enemy’s attack can be found
at the bottom of the enemy’s text box.
After an enemy attacks during the enemy phase, exhaust it to indicate
that it has attacked. (During other attacks, such as attacks of opportunity,
enemies do not exhaust.)
After each ready, engaged enemy has attacked, the enemy phase is over.
Proceed to the upkeep phase.
This enemy’s attacks deal
2 damage and 2 horror.
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Enemy
Damage Value
Enemy
Horror Value
The Upkeep Phase
In the upkeep phase, investigators and enemies regain their bearings and
prepare for the next round.
Resolve the following steps in order:
1. Each investigator flips their investigator token or mini-card faceup.
2. Ready all exhausted cards. Each unengaged enemy that readies at the
same location as an investigator engages that investigator at this time.
(See “Enemy Engagement” on page 19.)
3. Each investigator draws one card and gains one resource.
4. Each investigator with more than eight cards in their hand chooses and
discards cards from their hand until only eight cards remain.
After the above steps are complete, the game round is over. Proceed to the
mythos phase of the next game round.
Damage and Horror
An investigator can take damage and/or horror during a
scenario. An investigator’s health and sanity values indicate how
much damage and horror they can take before being defeated.
Æ When an investigator takes damage, they must assign that
damage to a card they control. To do so, place damage on
the investigator card and/or on any of that investigator’s
asset cards that have health, up to its health value. A card
that has no health value cannot be assigned damage.
= If an investigator takes “direct damage” that damage
must be assigned to their investigator card.
Æ When an investigator takes horror, they must assign that
horror to a card they control. To do so, place horror on the
investigator card and/or on any of that investigator’s asset
cards that have sanity, up to its sanity value. A card that has
no sanity value cannot be assigned horror.
= If an investigator takes “direct horror,” that horror must
be assigned to their investigator card.
Æ If a card has an amount of damage that equals (or exceeds)
its health value, or an amount of horror that equals (or
exceeds) its sanity value, that card is defeated. A defeated
asset is discarded. A defeated investigator is eliminated.
(See “Elimination” on page 41.)18
RULEBOOK
The Mythos Phase
In the mythos phase, the arcane forces pitted against the investigators seek
to advance their fell agenda.
The mythos phase comprises three steps, described below.
1. Place one doom token on the current agenda.
2. Compare the total number of doom tokens in play (on the current agenda
and on other cards in play) to the doom threshold of the current agenda.
(Important note: Unless a card effect specifies that it can cause the current
agenda to advance, this is the only time the agenda can be advanced.) If the
number of doom tokens in play is equal to or greater than the doom
threshold of the current agenda, advance the agenda deck.
= To advance the agenda, discard all doom tokens from play (even those
that are on enemies, locations, treacheries, or player cards), turning the
current agenda card over, following the instructions on its reverse
side, and removing that agenda from play.
= Then, the front side of the next card in the agenda deck becomes the
active agenda card.
3. In player order, each investigator draws the top card of the encounter
deck and resolves its text. Instructions for resolving each type of
encounter card are presented on the following pages.
Illus. Nele Diel © 2026 FFG 2/11 106
Agenda 1a
The campus is strangely quiet, and there
is no sign of your friend. Hooded figures
cross the quad as nervous students scurry
under painfully bright streetlamps.
: Parley. Test  (2). If you
succeed, discard a Bystander enemy at
your location.
Past Curfew
3
Encounter Cardtypes
There are two encounter cardtypes: Enemies and Treacheries.
Treachery
Treachery cards represent hazards, schemes, powers, or deadly encounters
with the arcane forces that are set against the investigators.
Æ When a treachery card is drawn, note any
keywords (see “Peril and Surge” below) and then
resolve its revelation ability. This often requires
an investigator to attempt a skill test or make a
difficult decision.
Æ After a treachery’s revelation ability is resolved,
place it in the encounter discard pile unless that
treachery has been put into play, either in an
investigator’s threat area or attached to
another scenario card.
Illus. Sara Biddle © 2026 FFG 3/4 126
T R E A C H E RY
They say curiosity killed the cat. But will it kill you, too?
Revelation – If you have no clues, Forbidden
Secrets gains surge. Otherwise, test  (3). For
each point you fail by, you must either place 1 of
your clues on your location, or take 1 horror.
Pact.
Forbidden Secrets
Treachery Card
Peril and Surge
Peril and Surge are keywords that appear on some
encounter cards.
Æ When an encounter card with the peril keyword is drawn,
the investigator who drew it cannot consult with their
fellow investigators when resolving its revelation ability.
Only the investigator who drew the peril encounter card
may commit cards to skill tests on that card.
Æ When a card with the surge keyword is drawn, after
resolving its text, the investigator who drew it must draw a
new card from the top of the encounter deck.19
RULEBOOK
Enemy
Enemy cards represent monsters, creatures, or humans who are arrayed
against the investigators.
When an enemy card is drawn, spawn it ready and
engaged with the investigator who drew it.
Æ If the enemy has spawn instructions, it enters play
at the location indicated by its spawn instructions.
It will automatically engage an investigator at
that location.
= If the enemy has spawn instructions that
cannot be fulfilled, that enemy is discarded.
Æ When an enemy spawns, it is considered to
enter the location in which it spawns (this may
have a bearing on some card effects).
Æ If the enemy drawn has the aloof keyword, it spawns unenaged.
For more information on enemy engagement, refer to the “Enemy
Engagement” sidebar to the right.
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Enemy Card
Enemy Engagement
While an enemy card is in play, it is either engaged with an
investigator and placed physically in that investigator’s threat
area, or it is unengaged and physically placed at its location.
Each enemy in an investigator’s threat area is considered to be
at that investigator’s current location. Should the investigator
move, each enemy remains engaged with the investigator and
moves with them.
Whenever a ready, unengaged enemy is at the same location
as an investigator, it engages that investigator and is placed
in that investigator’s threat area. Some enemies have the prey
keyword, which dictates whom it engages if there are multiple
possibilities. (See “Prey” on page 43.)
If multiple investigators are at the same location as a ready,
unengaged enemy, the lead investigator chooses which
investigator the enemy engages.
An unengaged enemy immediately engages an investigator if:
Æ It spawns at a location where an investigator is located.
Æ It moves into a location where an investigator is located.
Æ An investigator moves into a location where a ready enemy
is located.
Æ An exhausted enemy readies at a location where
an investigator is located.20
RULEBOOK
What’s Next?
After the mythos phase is resolved, play proceeds to the investigation
phase. Continue resolving game rounds until a scenario resolution is
reached. (See “Scenario Resolution” on page 33.)
After you’ve completed your first game, you may wish to continue the
campaign. To do so, read “Expanded Campaign Rules” on page 5 of the
Brethren of Ash campaign guide. Then proceed to the next scenario, “Smoke
and Mirrors” using the setup rules to the right.
Some players may wish to practice using different investigators before
proceeding with the campaign. To do so, we recommend you review the
available investigators and class archetypes on page 24 before replaying
the first scenario, “Spreading Flames.” Further rules on how to customize
your investigator deck are available on page 30.
A quick reference of keywords, icons, and important game symbols can be
found on the back cover of this rulebook. The answers to many questions
that may arise during play can be found in the Abridged Arkham Grimoire
starting on page 32. For more in-depth questions, refer to the Arkham
Grimoire online.
Setting Up a Game
The following section is a condensed universal version of the setup rules
that can be used for any scenario of Arkham Horror: The Card Game.
1. Choose investigators. Each player chooses an investigator and places
that investigator’s card in their play area. (Note that players must each
choose a different investigator to play.)
2. Take trauma damage/horror. In campaign play, each player places
damage equal to their physical trauma, and horror equal to their mental
trauma, on their investigator card.
3. Choose Lead Investigator. Choose a player to be the lead investigator
for this game. That player takes the lead investigator token. Each player
chooses either their investigator mini-card or investigator token to
represent their position on the map during the game.
4. Assemble and shuffle investigator decks.
5. Assemble token pool. Place the damage, horror, clue/doom, resource,
and connector tokens within easy reach of all players.
6. Assemble the chaos bag. Place the chaos tokens as indicated by the
campaign setup instructions into the chaos bag. Return the other chaos
tokens to the game box.
= In campaign mode, if this is not the first scenario, use the chaos bag
as it was composed upon completion of the previous scenario.
7. Collect starting resources. Each investigator gains 5 resources from
the token pool.
8. Draw opening hands. Each player draws 5 cards. Each player may
mulligan any cards in their opening hand once.
= Each weakness card drawn during this step is ignored, set aside
(without resolving it), and replaced by drawing another card from
the deck. Upon completion of this step, shuffle each of the set-aside
weakness cards back into their owner’s deck.
9. Read the scenario introduction in the campaign guide.
10. Perform the scenario setup instructions in the campaign guide.
This includes gathering the listed encounter sets, placing locations,
placing investigator tokens and/or mini-cards at the location where each
investigator begins play, setting aside any listed cards, and shuffling the
remaining encounter cards together to form the encounter deck.
11. Set agenda deck. Assemble the agenda deck in sequential order, with
the art side faceup, so that “agenda 1a” is on top. Read the story text on
agenda 1a.
12. Set act deck. Assemble the act deck in sequential order, with the art
side faceup, so that “act 1a” is on top. Read the story text on act 1a.
13. Place the scenario reference card next to the agenda deck. The game
is now afoot!
There are no action windows during setup. During setup, players may only
trigger card abilities or play cards from hand if the ability or card’s specific
triggering condition is met.21
RULEBOOK
Campaign Play
A campaign is a long-form story set in the foreboding universe of
Lovecraft’s Mythos, and unfolds over a series of interrelated scenarios. As a
campaign progresses, each investigator gains experience and trauma which
is reflected by changes in their deck. Decisions, victories, and losses are
recorded in the campaign log and may have far-reaching repercussions.
To start a campaign, follow the instructions for that campaign’s setup in
the campaign guide.
The Campaign Log
The campaign log (near the end of the campaign guide) is used to track the
progress and development of the campaign. At the end of each scenario,
the players record their results by entering all of the relevant information in
the campaign log. This includes any experience earned by an investigator,
each investigator’s trauma level, earned story assets or weaknesses, and any
killed or insane investigators.
For your convenience, we recommend you print or make a copy of
the campaign log so that you can play the campaign more than once.
Downloadable PDFs for each campaign can be found at
www.fantasyflightgames.com.
“Record in your Campaign Log…”
Often the players will be instructed to record an important note or story
element in the campaign log. Write these phrases under “Campaign Notes”
unless specified otherwise. These notes will often be referenced in later
scenarios, allowing decisions from one scenario to carry over into later
scenarios. If the players are instructed to cross out one of these notes, the
crossed-off note is ignored for the remainder of the campaign.
Because the players may be instructed to check the campaign log for a
specific phrase at a later time in the campaign, write the indicated phrase
exactly as it appears, without alteration.
For example: If the players are instructed to record in the campaign log that
“the investigators discovered 3 notes” this shouldn’t be rephrased as “the
investigators found some notes,” because the exact number of notes might be
important in a later scenario.
“Remember that…”
Sometimes a scenario card will instruct the investigators to “remember”
a key phrase, often based on an action they have taken or a decision they
have made within that scenario. This phrase may come up later during that
scenario, and may trigger additional effects. There is no need to record
this phrase in the campaign log, because it will only ever matter during
the current scenario, or during its resolution.
If a “remember” effect uses the word “you,” it is specific to the investigator
resolving that effect.
“Become the bearer of…”
At various points in a campaign, players may be instructed to make
someone the “bearer” of a particular story asset or weakness. When a player
becomes the bearer of such a card, that player adds that card to their deck,
ignoring all deckbuilding restrictions and requirements. That card does not
count toward that investigator’s deck size.
Advancing to the Next Scenario
After completing a scenario, updating the campaign log, and purchasing
any new cards, advance to the next scenario in the campaign, as directed by
the campaign guide.
Joining or Leaving a Campaign
Once a campaign has begun, players can freely drop in and out of the
campaign in between scenarios.
If a player leaves the campaign, do not remove that player’s information
from the campaign log, as they may re-join at any time between scenarios.
If a new player joins the campaign, they must choose an investigator not
previously used during this campaign. That player begins as if it were their
first scenario in the campaign, with no experience and no trauma.22
RULEBOOK
Trauma, Death, and Insanity
Through their encounters with the Mythos, investigators may find
themselves irreparably scarred, or even worse. Trauma represents
permanent damage that has been inflicted upon an investigator’s body
and mind.
Æ If an investigator is defeated in a scenario, that investigator is
eliminated from the scenario but not necessarily from the campaign.
= If an investigator is defeated by taking damage equal to their health,
they suffer 1 physical trauma (recorded in the campaign log). If an
investigator has physical trauma equal to their printed health, that
investigator is killed.
= If an investigator is defeated by taking horror equal to their sanity,
they suffer 1 mental trauma (recorded in the campaign log). If an
investigator has mental trauma equal to their printed sanity, that
investigator is driven insane.
= In some scenario resolutions, investigators may be devoured by a
cosmic entity or horrifying abomination.
Æ If an investigator is defeated by simultaneously taking damage equal to
their health and horror equal to their sanity, they choose which type of
trauma to suffer.
Æ If an investigator is killed, driven insane, or devoured, that
investigator cannot be used for the remainder of the campaign. That
player chooses a new investigator to use in the next scenario, and
creates a new level 0 deck for that investigator.
Æ If a player attempts to choose a new investigator and there are no
investigators remaining in the collection, the players have lost the
campaign and the campaign ends.
Æ For each physical and/or mental trauma an investigator has suffered,
that investigator begins each subsequent scenario in the campaign with
1 damage and/or horror, respectively.
Earning and Spending Experience
As an investigator delves deeper into the Mythos, they gain insight into
the hidden truths of the world—hidden monstrosities and secrets that
humanity was never meant to know. This insight manifests in the form of
experience. During the resolution of a scenario, each investigator may earn
1 or more experience. Experience is earned separately by each investigator,
and may not be transferred from one investigator to another. Experience
can be obtained by placing encounter cards worth victory points in the
victory display (often by defeating monsters or clearing all the clues off of a
location), or through story decisions and scenario outcomes.
Experience may be spent between scenarios to learn new skills or spells, or
to acquire new items and weapons, in the form of additional cards. Adding
a new card to a deck costs experience equal to that card’s level, denoted
by one or more white pips near the top left corner of the card (see “Card
Levels” on page 30). Adding a new card to your deck always costs at least
1 experience even if the card you are adding is level 0, and it requires that
you maintain your deck size (usually by removing another card that would
put you in excess of your deck size).
Some cards may be upgraded to their higher level version. These cards
have the same title as their other versions but may have additional effects,
additional skill icons, and/or different costs. If a player has a lower level
version of a card and wishes to purchase the higher level version, they
may upgrade that card by spending experience equal to the difference in
level between the two. The new version is added to the deck, and the older
version is removed.
A player is not required to spend all of their earned experience between
scenarios. They may record any leftover experience under “Unspent
Experience” in the campaign log and spend it at a later time.23
RULEBOOK
Reward Cards
Some campaigns contain a unique subtype of player card: the campaign
reward card. Campaign reward cards are neutral (classless) cards
that are added to a player’s collection once they have been unlocked
through gameplay.
Æ Reward cards are identified by the reward keyword as well as by the
golden graphic in the upper left corner of the card, as indicated below.
Æ When the campaign rules inform the players that they have earned a
reward card (often through resolution or interlude text), that card is
added to the collection of player cards. Players cannot use a reward
card in deckbuilding, and cannot play such a card, unless it has
been unlocked by an outcome in the campaign.
Æ Reward cards may adjust the way players play the game by adding
deckbuilding options, new abilities, or unique restrictions to an
investigator deck.
Æ Investigators are never required to include any unlocked campaign
reward cards in their decks.
Epic Campaign Mode
After completing a campaign, you may wish to continue your investigator’s
story in another campaign. Epic Campaign Mode offers a challenge to
players who wish to see how long their investigator can prevail against
countless horrors, and is not for the faint of heart. When your investigator
is killed, driven insane, or otherwise removed from the campaign, their
accumulated experience across each campaign determines your total score.
In order to play in Epic Campaign Mode, observe the following rules:
Æ Not all surviving investigators in the original campaign need to be
transferred to the next campaign.
Reward Card
Neutral
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 15/16 181
ASSET
Permanent. Reward. Limit 1 per deck. Purchase
only at deck creation.
You get +5 deck size.
Your investigator’s Deckbuilding Options gains:
“one other Relic or Charm asset of any class
(, , , , ) level 0–3.”
Talent.
— Collector
Æ Forfeit all experience earned during the previous campaign. Record
the amount of experience (X) previously earned for your specific
investigator in the next campaign log as “[investigator name]’s
total experience earned: X.” At the completion of a campaign, or
if that investigator is killed or driven insane, add this total to
your final experience amount in order to determine how well you
have performed.
Æ Remove all cards of levels 1–5 from your deck, resetting the deck to
only level 0 cards. You may rebuild your investigator deck using any
cards from the collection as if you were just beginning a campaign.
Æ Transfer all physical and mental trauma and all earned story assets
and weaknesses to the new campaign. All other notes in the previous
campaign’s campaign log are wiped clean and do not transfer to the
new campaign.
Æ Reset the chaos bag. Build a new chaos bag when setting up the new
campaign. When beginning the next campaign, select a difficulty level
equal to or higher than your previous campaign’s difficulty level.
Æ If your investigator has an ability that occurs “at the beginning of the
campaign,” or “at deck creation,” such as bonus experience, that ability
triggers one more time upon transferring into a new campaign.
Cards and campaign guides are written and balanced with the assumption
that investigators are not being transferred from one campaign to another.
For this reason, campaigns are sometimes referred to as “the campaign.”
(For example, “for the remainder of the campaign…”) When interpreting
such effects, treat each campaign as being separate from one another.
However, some of these effects are to be interpreted as if each campaign is
being played as part of one continuous campaign. This includes rules that
dictate how an earned weakness or story asset operates, or additional rules
that a specific investigator must follow. (For example, “for the remainder of
the campaign, the bearer of X weakness must speak in riddles.”)
Standalone Mode
All scenarios may be played in standalone mode, as a single game. When
playing a scenario in standalone mode, refer to any “Standalone Mode”
rules during setup. More information on standalone mode may be found in
the Arkham Grimoire online.Class Archetypes
In Arkham Horror: The Card Game, each player takes on the role of an
investigator from the Arkham Horror Mythos and uses a deck of cards to
represent that character in the game.
The pool of player cards from which these decks are comprised is divided
into five classes. A class is a large group of thematically and synergistically
linked cards. Each character’s strategy and tactical approach to the game is
heavily influenced by the class (or classes) of cards that they are able to use.
The five classes are Guardian, Seeker, Rogue, Mystic, and Survivor.
Neutral cards have no class and can be used by any investigator. The
following pages serve as an introduction to each class, as well as to the
investigator deck representing that class in this core set.
Starter Decks
Investigating the deadly machinations of the Mythos is
dangerous work. You will confront monstrosities and horrors
far beyond your ken, and the knowledge you seek may cause
irreparable harm to your psyche. You’ll need strong allies,
useful skills, and the best tools if you are to succeed in the
campaigns to come.
To help you in your investigations, a sample starter deck for
each of the five investigators is included in the core set. These
decks are a gateway into the world of Arkham Horror, and
are ideal for players who wish to get into the action as fast
as possible, or for players who do not wish to use the deck
customization rules to construct an original deck.
Each of the provided decks is accompanied by tips and tricks
on how to make the best use of an investigator’s ability,
demonstrating card synergy within the deck.
These starter decks are meant to be used at the beginning
of a campaign and thus contain only level 0 cards. In the
following deck lists, the number in parentheses next to each
card indicates that card’s collector number. If the number of
copies of a card is not specified, use only 1 copy of that card.
Each of these starter decks includes a specific basic weakness
instead of a random basic weakness. Do not add an additional
random basic weakness to a starter deck when beginning a
new campaign.
With the contents of this core set, players can have all five of
these starter decks constructed at the same time.25
Daniela Reyes Strategy Tips
Daniela is a powerhouse fighter who excels at taking hits from enemies and
retaliating using her  ability. In order to maximize her damage output,
you’ll want to play assets that absorb damage and horror from enemy attacks.
Mulligan for resource generators like Logan Hastings or Emergency Cache
to pay for Daniela’s expensive arsenal.
As a Guardian, many of Daniela’s cards require her to take hits and defeat
enemies. To prepare yourself, grab a weapon and a means to soak (and heal)
more damage from enemies as early as possible. Use Right Tool for the Job to
dig for Daniela’s Wrench or another weapon such as Machete or the M1911.
Assets that heal or may be assigned damage such as Bodyguard, Resilience,
and Bandages will also help keep Daniela fighting fit!
Although Daniela may struggle to find clues, events such as “Look What I
Found!” allow her to fail forward, while Scene of the Crime gives her a means
to easily discover clues from higher shroud locations (provided there is an
enemy present).
Be mindful of the amount of horror Daniela takes, as this can easily take
her out of the game and saddle her with unwanted mental trauma. Should
Daniela put herself In Harm’s Way, an ally such as Aleksey Saburov can make
all the difference.
Daniela Reyes, the Mechanic
Investigator
Daniela Reyes ....................( 1)
Assets (17)
Daniela’s Wrench............. ( 2)
Bodyguard.........................( 16)
Endurance ........................ ( 17)
Logan Hastings ..............( 18)
M1911 ...............................( 19)
Machete.............................( 20)
Resilience ..........................( 21)
Aleksey Saburov.............( 72)
Bandages ..........................( 73)
Hunter’s Instinct ............ ( 74)
Jumpsuit............................ ( 75)
Levelheaded.....................( 76)
Meat Cleaver...................( 77)
2x Broken Bottle ............( 86)
2x Hand-Crank
Flashlight ....................( 88)
Events (7)
Lesson Learned...............( 22)
Right Tool for the Job....( 23)
Scene of the Crime .........( 24)
“Look what I found!”....( 78)
“Shove off!” ......................( 79)
2x Emergency Cache ....( 89)
Skills (7)
Vicious Blow....................( 25)
Slippery .............................( 80)
Timely Intervention ...... ( 81)
2x Overpower .................( 92)
2x Unexpected Courage ( 94)
Weaknesses (2)
In Harm’s Way.................. ( 3)
Wounded........................ ( 104)
 Guardian
Class Overview
Guardian characters are “team players” who favor combat, protecting their
fellow investigators, and building an arsenal for the next big confrontation.
Guardians support as well as they fight, taking hits for others and healing
damage when needed. If the thought of grabbing your weapons, hunting
down the dark creatures of the Mythos, and going toe-to-tentacle with
them is appealing, the Guardian class is for you!
Class Strengths:
High  Value, Healing, Team Support, Heavy Weaponry, Strong Allies,
Enemy Management, Extra Damage
Class Playstyles:
Enemy “Tank,” Melee Fighter, Weapons Expert, Medic
The Guardian character in this core set is Daniela Reyes.
“Point me at the monsters.
And get behind me.”
Upgrading Daniela Reyes
As you play through the campaign and collect experience,
consider how you would like to play Daniela and upgrade your
deck accordingly. A simple first upgrade would be to purchase
Bodyguard (level 2), which deals extra damage on defeat. If you
want to have more than one ally out at once, Charisma (level 3)
is always a good purchase. For those that want to play the hero,
Counterattack (level 1) can cancel a decisive enemy strike if
played at the right time. And if you really just want to deal raw
damage, Sledgehammer (level 3) and Winchester Model 12
(level 5) both deal extra damage with a sizeable combat boost.
After considering all the options available to you, think about
your deck and how you like to play, before you spend the
experience on the options that best suit your style!Joe Diamond Strategy Tips
Joe Diamond is a Seeker who isn’t afraid to confront the horrors of the
hidden world head-on if it means getting to the bottom of a mystery. His
investigator ability will keep his hand filled with cards as long as he is
investigating, and investigating is the thing Joe does best!
Joe’s deck is full of cards that help make sure he can successfully
investigate. Cards such as Fingerprint Kit, Local Map, and Magnifying
Glass are items that Joe wants to have in play to boost his intellect, get
extra clues, and even get some free movement. Dorothy Simmons is a great
ally that rewards Joe with resources, and Deduction will get him two clues
instead of one for investigating successfully.
But the mysteries of Arkham are often deadly, and thanks to his Guardian
access Joe is ready to fight for his life. Resilience and Bodyguard both allow
Joe to roll with the punches, and weapons such as M1911 and Machete
ensure he can deal damage just as well as he can take it. Keeping enemies at
bay allows you to focus on your investigation and advancing the scenario.
Beware if you draw into Dead Ends, Joe’s signature weakness. This event
is a costly burden, forcing you to spend 5 resources to play it before the
scenario ends.
Joe Diamond, the Private Investigator
Investigator
Joe Diamond...................... ( 4)
Assets (16)
Dorothy Simmons..........( 30)
Fingerprint Kit ............... ( 31)
Laboratory Assistant....( 32)
Local Map........................( 33)
Magnifying Glass...........( 34)
Sharp Rhetoric ...............( 35)
Bodyguard.........................( 16)
Endurance ........................ ( 17)
Logan Hastings ..............( 18)
M1911 ...............................( 19)
Machete.............................( 20)
Resilience ..........................( 21)
2x Fedora..........................( 87)
2x Hand-Crank
Flashlight ....................( 88)
Events (9)
Detective’s Intuition.........( 5)
Gather Intel .....................( 36)
Through the Cracks.......( 37)
Working a Hunch ..........( 38)
Lesson Learned...............( 22)
Right Tool for the Job....( 23)
Scene of the Crime .........( 24)
2x Emergency Cache ....( 89)
Skills (6)
Deduction.........................( 39)
Vicious Blow....................( 25)
2x Perception...................( 93)
2x Overpower .................( 92)
Weaknesses (2)
Dead Ends.......................... ( 6)
Overzealous.................. ( 100)
 Seeker
Class Overview
The Seeker’s approach to a problem is to understand what is going on
and figure out a solution using their mind. They are the intellectuals of
the Arkham setting, often represented by students, teachers, scientists,
psychologists, detectives, and philosophers. If you believe in the power of
the clear and focused human mind, seek no further than the Seeker class.
Class Strengths:
Exceptional  Value, Card Draw, Deck Searching, Horror Healing,
Discovering Extra Clues, Powerful Tome Assets, Precise Skill Tests
Class Playstyles:
Clue Gatherer, Counselor, Gumshoe, Head Librarian
The Seeker character in this core set is Joe Diamond.
Upgrading Joe Diamond
Once you’ve played Joe Diamond through the first scenario,
you should have some experience to upgrade your deck. An
easy first purchase is Studious (level 3) which allows you to
begin each game with an additional card in your opening
hand. If you want the power to re-sculpt your hand at just
the right moment, you can save up 5 experience for a copy
of Unbridled Knowledge (level 5)! Should you find yourself
worried about enemy attacks, hire a Bodyguard (level 2) or
learn how to slip Through the Cracks (level 2).
There are numerous upgrade options within the cardpool.
After reviewing your options, think about how you would
prefer to play Joe Diamond and spend the experience on the
upgrades that best support your style.
“I’ll find the truth,
no matter the cost.”27
Trish Scarborough Strategy Tips
Trish is a clever undercover operative who excels at slipping away from
enemies and gathering clues. Her extra evade action and signature Covert
Ops allow her to move quickly around the map or dig through her deck for
staple cards such as Olivier Bishop and Magnifying Glass.
As a Rogue, Trish has access to strong resource generators such as Thieves’
Kit and Sticky Fingers. Use resources gained from those to pay for skill
boosts via Silver Tongue or Sharp Rhetoric to ensure you oversucceed by
2 or more. This focus on oversuccess, in turn, will get you the most value
from cards such as Lucky Cigarette Case or Breaking and Entering!
Fingerprint Kit, Working a Hunch, and Deduction offer additional ways to
grab more clues quickly. You’ll need to hang on to at least one of those clues
in case the shadowy Black Chamber Operative appears, which can turn
Trish’s penchant for evasion against her. Although Trish excels more at
evading enemies than defeating them, the M1903 Hammerless is just what
she needs to keep the Operative off her tail permanently.
During the mythos phase, Trish’s low willpower makes her especially
vulnerable to many treacheries, which is why you’ll want to hang on to
enough resources to boost Sharp Rhetoric when needed. Should you find
yourself out of options, the helpful Laboratory Assistant can grab you some
cards and soak some damage or horror you might incur.
Trish Scarborough, the Former Spy
Investigator
Trish Scarborough........... ( 7)
Assets (17)
Covert Ops......................... ( 8)
Lucky Cigarette Case....( 44)
M1903 Hammerless.....( 45)
Olivier Bishop .................( 46)
Silver Tongue...................( 47)
Sticky Fingers ..................( 48)
Thieves’ Kit.......................( 49)
Dorothy Simmons..........( 30)
Fingerprint Kit ............... ( 31)
Laboratory Assistant....( 32)
Local Map........................( 33)
Magnifying Glass...........( 34)
Sharp Rhetoric ...............( 35)
2x Broken Bottle ............( 86)
2x Hand-Crank
Flashlight ....................( 88)
Events (8)
Breaking and Entering.( 50)
Paint the Town Red....... ( 51)
Prestidigitation...............( 52)
Gather Intel .....................( 36)
Through the Cracks.......( 37)
Working a Hunch ..........( 38)
2x Emergency Cache ....( 89)
Skills (6)
Out of Sight......................( 53)
Deduction ( 39)
2x Manual Dexterity ... ( 91)
2x Perception...................( 93)
Weaknesses (2)
Black Chamber
Operative .............................. ( 9)
Syndicate Obligations. ( 103)
 Rogue
Class Overview
Rogue characters make their own rules and find a way to continually
tilt the odds in their favor. They are adept at avoiding enemies, taking
calculated risks for great rewards, and gathering lots (and lots) of resources.
If taking on the guise of a character who lives just outside the law and can
melt into the shadows appeals to you, the Rogue class is for you!
Class Strengths:
Great  Value, Evasion, Resource Generation, Oversucceeding at Skill
Tests, Additional Actions, Movement
Class Playstyles:
“Big Money,” Push Your Luck, Evasion Expert, Showoff
The Rogue character in this core set is Trish Scarborough.
Upgrading Trish Scarborough
After you have played through the first scenario with Trish,
consider her playstyle and how you would like to support
that playstyle with your deckbuilding upgrades. For instance,
you could spend 2 experience on the Sticky Fingers (level 2)
upgrade to give that asset the fast keyword. If you want to lean
into the class’ exceptional economy, spend 3 experience on
Another Day, Another Dollar (level 3) or Decisive Strike (level
2). You could also purchase Mysterious Grimoire (level 2) to
help you dig for key assets throughout the game.
You have numerous different upgrade options. Think about
how you enjoy playing Trish and what cards you tend to
gravitate toward, and use your experience on the cards that
excite you the most!
“The only sure thing about
luck: it will change.”Dexter Drake Strategy Tips
Dexter is a high willpower spellcaster and showman who can fight,
investigate, and evade well, provided he has the proper tools at his disposal.
Use his signature “For my next trick…” or his  ability early on to play
resource-generating assets such as Thieves’ Kit or Sticky Fingers so that
you can build up your resources. Then, use those resources to play spells
like Cosmic Flame or Second Sight so you can fight and investigate in equal
measure using Dexter’s high willpower.
Dexter depends on his assets to get things done. You’ll want to use cards
like Jim Culver and Cloak of Resonance to get extra value out of horror
you might incur from enemy attacks. A powerful Ward of Protection can
cancel a particularly nasty treachery while also incurring a horror, which
in turn triggers other abilities in your arsenal. Use Lucky Charm to heal or
defeat assets you control, or pull them back to hand with a flourish through
Dexter’s excellent use of Prestidigitation.
If you’ve lost some of your high-value spell assets, you can instead rely on
events such as Will of the Cosmos to grab some clues, or Breaking and
Entering to investigate and potentially evade a bothersome enemy. Dexter’s
high willpower makes him a stalwart force against the Mythos. However,
an ill-timed reading of The Necronomicon can shut down Dexter’s entire
play area, so you may want to keep a copy of Premonition in hand (for more
information on how Premonition works, see “Seal” on page 44).
Dexter Drake, the Magician
Investigator
Dexter Drake ..................( 10)
Assets (16)
Cloak of Resonance.......( 58)
Cosmic Flame .................( 59)
Jim Culver ........................( 60)
Lucky Charm .................. ( 61)
Second Sight ....................( 62)
Spiritual Intuition .........( 63)
Lucky Cigarette Case....( 44)
M1903 Hammerless.....( 45)
Olivier Bishop .................( 46)
Silver Tongue...................( 47)
Sticky Fingers ..................( 48)
Thieves’ Kit.......................( 49)
2x Broken Bottle ............( 86)
2x Hand-Crank
Flashlight ....................( 88)
Events (9)
“For my next trick…”.....( 11)
Premonition.....................( 64)
Ward of Protection ........( 65)
Will of the Cosmos ........( 66)
Breaking and Entering.( 50)
Paint the Town Red....... ( 51)
Prestidigitation...............( 52)
2x Emergency Cache ....( 89)
Skills (6)
Soul Link...........................( 67)
Out of Sight......................( 53)
2x Guts..............................( 90)
2x Manual Dexterity ... ( 91)
Weaknesses (2)
The Necronomicon.........( 12)
Paranoia .........................( 101)
 Mystic
Class Overview
While every investigator has a unique connection to the deadly workings
of the Mythos, the eccentric and often self-destructive Mystics willingly
embrace the void. Drawn like moths to the flame, they risk both body and
soul in order to harness the strength of the supernatural for their own
ends. This incredible power often comes at a cost, however. If you share
this desire to tap into forces too great for human comprehension, consider
walking the path of the Mystic!
Class Strengths:
High  Value, Powerful Spell and Ritual Cards, Predicting/Ignoring
Chaos Tokens, Encounter Deck Control, Doom Manipulation
Class Playstyles:
Blood Witch, Spellslinger, Fortune Teller, Doombringer
The Mystic character in this core set is Dexter Drake.
Upgrading Dexter Drake
Dexter has a number of worthwhile upgrades to bolster his
considerable arsenal. As you play through the campaign
and earn experience, consider how you want to play Dexter.
To improve your fighting capabilities, you can upgrade
into Cosmic Flame (level 5) or Decisive Strike (level 2).
Alternatively, you may want purchase Relic Hunter (level 3) to
keep more accessories on the board at once!
Given that Dexter can function both as a clue-gatherer and
fighter in equal measure, consider your upgrade options.
Should you pursue a more offensive focus, or a more
investigation-focused upgrade path? There is no wrong answer.
“A little fear is nothing compared to
the power one may gain.”29
Isabelle Barnes Strategy Tips
Isabelle Barnes is a Survivor who has been through some of the worst the
Mythos has to offer, and she isn’t easily deterred from her mission. Her
investigator ability allows you to commit a skill card from your discard pile
to a new skill test, granting you additional uses of each skill, all for the cost
of just 1 direct horror.
With an ability like this, you’re going to want plenty of useful skills in
Isabelle’s deck. Neutral skills are good picks for Isabelle, with Guts and
Unexpected Courage included in her starter deck. Soul Link is a strong
addition from her Mystic access, while Slippery and Timely Intervention
each have useful abilities that can be the difference between life and death!
Her affinity for skill cards allows Isabelle to succeed at whatever horrors
come her way. She can confidently take on monsters with cards like Meat
Cleaver, Cosmic Flame, or her signature weapon Isabelle’s Twin .45s.
Cards like Second Sight, Will of the Cosmos, and “Look what I found!”
each provide unorthodox means to gather clues. And should she find
herself gravely injured, Isabelle can keep herself in the game thanks to
Bandages, Jumpsuit, and Aleksey Saburov. Be careful with the amount
of horror on Isabelle, however, because drawing her signature weakness
Breaking Point at the wrong time could defeat her outright!
Isabelle Barnes, the Returned
Investigator
Isabelle Barnes................( 13)
Assets (17)
Isabelle’s Twin .45s........ ( 14)
Aleksey Saburov.............( 72)
Bandages ..........................( 73)
Hunter’s Instinct ............ ( 74)
Jumpsuit............................ ( 75)
Levelheaded.....................( 76)
Meat Cleaver...................( 77)
Cloak of Resonance.......( 58)
Cosmic Flame .................( 59)
Jim Culver ........................( 60)
Lucky Charm .................. ( 61)
Second Sight ....................( 62)
Spiritual Intuition .........( 63)
2x Broken Bottle ............( 86)
2x Hand-Crank
Flashlight ....................( 88)
Events (7)
“Look what I found!”....( 78)
“Shove off!” ......................( 79)
Premonition.....................( 64)
Ward of Protection ........( 65)
Will of the Cosmos.........( 66)
2x Emergency Cache ....( 89)
Skills (7)
Slippery .............................( 80)
Timely Intervention ...... ( 81)
Soul Link...........................( 67)
2x Unexpected Courage ( 94)
2x Guts............................. ( 90)
Weaknesses (2)
Breaking Point ................( 15)
Pursued .......................... ( 102)
Upgrading Isabelle Barnes
After playing your first scenario and earning experience,
consider Isabelle’s upgrade options. To make better use of
Isabelle’s  triggered ability, you’ll want to pack in horrorhealing upgrades like Meat Cleaver (level 3) and Fearless
(level 2). Increasing your ally slots with Charisma (level 3)
allows you to keep key allies like Jim Culver and Aleksey
Saburov out to maximize your damage and horror soak. In
addition, cards like Scrape By (level 1) and Old Compass
(level 2) allow you to turn failure into success.
After reviewing the different upgrade options, think about
what cards were most fun when you first played Isabelle, and
pick the upgrades that support your preferred playstyle!
 Survivor
Class Overview
While many other investigators are accomplished fighters or scholars,
Survivors tend to be regular folks who just happened to show up in the
wrong place at the wrong time. Thrust into situations beyond their ken,
Survivors get by with a combination of grit, common sense, and luck. Like
any “last one standing” in a horror movie, these investigators must step up
to become the unexpected hero of their own story. If the idea of playing the
role of a desperate, unlikely hero appeals to you, play a Survivor.
Class Strengths:
Reactive Play, Low-Cost Cards, Recurring Discarded Cards, Discarding
Cards for Abilities, Failing Forward, Traps
Class Playstyles:
Jack-of-All-Trades, Lose to Win, Trapper, “Final Girl”
The Survivor character in this core set is Isabelle Barnes.
“I’ll be fine on my own…
I hope.”30
RULEBOOK
Deck Customization
The Arkham Horror: The Card Game core set is designed to be a complete
game experience with significant replayability. After learning the basics of
the game, players may wish to explore customizing their own decks.
Why Create a Custom Deck?
Using this process, a player may customize their deck to take on the
scenarios using original strategies and ideas. This allows a player to
approach the game in new ways, using a deck that suits their preferred
playstyle. When a player creates an original deck, that player doesn’t just
participate in the game: they actively shape who their investigator is.
Deck Customization Rules
Note that for more deckbuilding options, players may want to obtain
expansion sets containing new cards. The following are the deck
customization rules for Arkham Horror: The Card Game investigator decks.
Æ Each player must choose exactly one investigator card. Players must
choose different investigators when deckbuilding to play together.
Æ Each player’s investigator deck must include the exact number of
standard player cards indicated on the back of the investigator card as
its “Deck Size.” For each of the investigators in the core set, this number
is 30. Weaknesses, investigator signature cards, and scenario cards that
are added to a player’s deck do not count toward this number.
Æ Each standard player card in an investigator deck must be chosen
according to the “Deckbuilding Options” available on the back of the
investigator card.
Æ Each investigator deck cannot include more than two copies (by title)
of any given player card.
Æ Each player must observe any other “Deckbuilding Requirements” on
the back of their investigator card.
Æ At the beginning of a campaign, an investigator may only include
level 0 cards in their deck (see “Card Levels” to the right).
Investigator Signature Cards
An investigator’s “signature cards” are cards that are only available
to that investigator, and cannot be included in another investigator
deck. This includes player cards with the text “[Investigator Name]
deck only,” as well as non-basic weaknesses that are listed under
“Deckbuilding Requirements” and therefore can only be included in that
investigator deck.
Signature cards are governed by the following additional rules:
Æ The number of each signature card listed under an investigator’s
“Deckbuilding Requirements” are the exact number of copies of that
card that is to be included in that investigator deck. If no number is
specified, then that number is 1.
Æ An investigator cannot play or commit another investigator’s signature
cards, nor can an investigator control another investigator’s signature
cards at any time.
Æ If a game effect would force a player to take control of a card with
another investigator’s signature card attached to it, that effect fails and
the signature card is discarded instead.
Æ Signature cards do not abide by typical deckbuilding restrictions, and
do not count toward any deckbuilding limitations if other cards share
the same title.
Æ Signatures cards do not have a level.
Card Levels
A card’s level is indicated by the presence of white pips beneath
its cost. The card level is equal to the number of such pips on
the card.
In campaign play, investigators may be rewarded with
experience points upon the completion of a scenario.
Investigators may spend these points to purchase higher
level cards to use in their decks during that campaign. (See
“Earning and Spending Experience” on page 22.)
Illus. Billy Norrby © 2026 FFG 27
ASSET
“I’m not here to help you shop;
I’m here to keep you alive.”
Bodyguard may be assigned damage dealt to other
investigators at your location.
 When Bodyguard is defeated: Deal 2 damage to an
enemy at your location.
Ally.
3 Bodyguard
3 2
Two white pips indicate
this is a level 2 card.
Random Basic Weaknesses
Most investigators have a deckbuilding requirement that instructs the
player to add a random basic weakness to their deck.
Unlike investigator-specific weaknesses, basic weaknesses are identified by
this symbol:
To select a random basic weakness, take the ten basic weaknesses in this
core set, shuffle them together, and draw one at random to add to your
investigator deck. Some Arkham Horror: The Card Game expansions add
additional basic weakness cards to your collection. Simply add these
basic weaknesses to the ten basic weaknesses found in the core set when
selecting random basic weaknesses in the future.
For example: Sarah owns one copy of the core set, two copies of the first
deckbuilding expansion, and one copy of an investigator deck. To create a single
set of basic weaknesses, she takes all the basic weaknesses from a single core
set, all the basic weaknesses from one copy of the first deckbuilding expansion,
and the basic weakness from her copy of an investigator deck. She shuffles them
together and draws her basic weakness at random from this pool.
Do not select an investigator’s basic weakness until all other cards in that
investigator’s deck have been chosen. In campaign mode, the selected
weakness remains a part of that investigator’s deck for the entire campaign,
unless it is removed by a card ability. In addition, scenario instructions and
card abilities may direct an investigator to become the bearer of additional
basic weaknesses and/or campaign-specific weaknesses.
Remember: An investigator’s signature weaknesses are never added to the pool
of random basic weaknesses.
Illus. Chris Peuler © 2026 FFG 97
BASIC WEAKNESS
T R E A C H E RY
Wait…where am I? What was I doing?
Revelation – Choose and discard all but 1 card
from your hand.
Madness.
AmnesiaChanges from the Previous Core Set
If you are a long-time player of Arkham Horror: The Card Game, this section
is intended to get you up to speed on changes from the previously released
core sets.
The game has expanded greatly since its initial release through player card
and expansion design. While this new core set keeps all essentials of the
game intact, a few quality-of-life improvements have been made to card
templating, wording, and game rules to reflect the evolving nature of the
game. Changes of note include the following:
Current and Legacy Environments
This is not a new edition of Arkham Horror: The Card Game. All previously
released content is compatible with cards in this core set as well as in all
future releases going forward. This core set and all current releases form a
“current environment”: a smaller cardpool that is the recommended way
to play the game. These reduced options provide players with an everchanging set of cards that create a true experience of a ‘living’ card game.
Campaigns and scenario content are optimized with an eye to the “current
environment” to create a tight, challenging experience.
Players who wish to embrace even more chaos may also play with any
(or all) previous releases and/or out-of-print content. This experience is
known as a “legacy environment” in which powerful combos and strange
interactions between current and past releases are possible.
Skill Test Indicators
When playing cards and triggering card abilities with a bold action
designator, a symbol indicating the skill being tested is included in
parentheses after the indicated action type. (For example, “: Fight ().
[…]” directs a player to use  for the attack, rather than .)
Æ Some card abilities may offer a choice between the skills being tested,
such as “: Fight ( or ). […]” When resolving these abilities,
choose which skill is being tested when initiating the ability.
Modified Reprints
A handful of cards from previous releases have been reprinted
in this core set, and others may reappear in future products.
Most of these cards have been reprinted as written, but a few
have been slightly adjusted from their previous versions,
keeping the spirit and identity of the card intact. If a
player has two versions of a card with the same title, only
one version of that card may be used in a deck.
A list of modified reprints can be found in the Arkham
Grimoire online.
Updated Card Layouts
Some cardtypes, such as skills and enemies, have updated templates. These
cardtypes are the same as before, and all player cards with new templates
are compatible with previously released cards.
New Components
This core set includes two new types of player tokens: connector tokens
and investigator tokens. Connector tokens allow players to visually
indicate which locations are connected to which, rather than referencing
location connection icons every time an investigator wishes to move.
Additionally, players may now use either their investigator mini-card or
one of the included player tokens to indicate their position on the map.
Reward Cards
Campaign expansions may feature a unique subtype of player card: the
campaign reward card. Campaign reward cards are neutral cards that can
be added to any investigator’s deck once unlocked. Reward Cards cannot
be added to a player’s collection until that player has unlocked that
card, usually by winning the campaign in which they were included. For
more information on this subject, see “Reward Cards” on page 23.
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 67
SKILL
By the power of the ancients
am I reborn anew.
As an additional cost to commit Soul Link, take
1 horror.
Innate. Spell.
Soul Link
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
Updated skill card and enemy card templates32
RULEBOOK
The Abridged Arkham Grimoire
“The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the
human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of
ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant
that we should voyage far.”
—H. P. Lovecraft, The Call of Cthulhu
Now that you have played your first game (or campaign) of Arkham Horror:
The Card Game, you may have additional questions about certain card
interactions, timing, or other elements. This rulebook is not intended to be
the definitive source on how to play the game. Instead, you can find a full
living rules reference online in the form of the Arkham Grimoire.
The Arkham Grimoire is a comprehensive collection of rulings covering
all known situations in the game. It is maintained online and updated
regularly as new cards and interactions are introduced or discovered.
The following pages serve as an introduction to the Arkham Grimoire,
presenting many of the core concepts and essentials of the game. The
first section expands on several more core rules and concepts; the second
presents a detailed card anatomy; the final section contains a glossary of
terms you may encounter when playing the game.
Treat this section as a convenient, abridged form of the Grimoire. For a full,
living rules document, download the Arkham Grimoire at
www.fantasyflightgames.com or follow this QR Code:
Additional Rules and Fundamentals
The following section includes some important rules for playing the game
as intended.
The Golden Rule
If the text of a card directly contradicts the text of this rulebook, the text of
the card takes precedence.
The Silver Rule
If two cards directly contradict one another in a way that is impossible to
reconcile, the encounter card takes precedence over the player card. If both
cards are encounter cards or both are player cards, the lead investigator
decides which takes precedence.
The Grim Rule
If players are unable to find the answer to (or come to a consensus on) a
rules or timing conflict in the Arkham Grimoire, resolve the conflict in the
manner that the players perceive as the worst possible at that moment with
regards to winning the scenario, then continue with the game.
When investigators are forced to make a choice and there are multiple valid
options, the lead investigator decides among those options. The Grim Rule
does not play a part in these choices.
The Grim Rule is not an exhaustive answer to rules/timing conflicts. The
Grim Rule is designed to keep the game moving when looking up the
correct answer would be too time-consuming or inconvenient.
A Cooperative Game
There are many possible choices of what to do during the investigation
phase. New threats, enemies, and situations may emerge during the mythos
phase beforehand, and it falls to the investigators to work together to
overcome them!
Investigators are encouraged to collaborate and plan out what they hope
to accomplish each round. The order in which the investigators take their
turns, and the actions each investigator performs during their turn, can
mean the difference between success and failure.
While the investigators may plan their turns as a group, each individual
player has final authority over the actions their investigator performs. Some
of the most memorable moments of the game arise when one investigator
finds themselves in over their head, forcing the group to adapt its plans.
For further guidelines on investigator communication, see “Table Talk” on
the next page.33
RULEBOOK
Table Talk
Arkham Horror: The Card Game is a cooperative experience in which each
player is encouraged to roleplay their specific investigator. The nature of the
game encourages players to work together and communicate, but players
are also encouraged to stay “in character” as much as possible during
play. The game’s areas of hidden information (the cards in a player’s hand
and deck) exist to maintain the feeling that each investigator is a unique
individual in the game world, and makes their decisions without complete
and perfect knowledge of what everyone else knows or is thinking. A good
means of maintaining this illusion is to not name, read off, or allude to
specific cards that are hidden information (e.g., in a player’s hand or deck).
For example: Isabelle wants her fellow investigator, Joe, to fight an enemy
engaged with her, and she wants to relay the fact that she can help. Instead of
saying something like, “Take a fight action against that enemy; I can commit
Unexpected Courage” or, “Fight the Servant of Flame; I can contribute two
icons,” Isabelle stays in character by saying, “Be brave! I can help you take
them down!”
Scenario Resolution
When any encounter card triggers a resolution—indicated by the text
“(→R#)”—players have completed the scenario and they must refer to the
resolution text matching that number in the campaign guide to discover
the outcome of the current scenario.
Should all investigators be eliminated during a scenario, use the “if no
resolution was reached” outcome for that scenario in the campaign guide.
Easily Missed Rules
If you are just learning the game, here are some important
rules that new players (and even some seasoned veterans) of
Arkham Horror: The Card Game can forget:
Æ Attacks of Opportunity. Taking any action other than
Fight, Evade, Parley, or Resign provokes attacks of
opportunity while one or more enemies are engaged with
you. (See “Attack of Opportunity” on page 38.)
Æ Combat damage. By default, a successful attack against an
enemy only deals 1 damage.
Æ Playing assets during your turn. Even if an asset has the
fast keyword, you cannot play an asset unless it is your
turn (or if there is a card ability that states otherwise). (See
“Fast” on page 41.)
Æ Committing cards. It does not cost resources to commit
a card to a skill test, and only matching skill icons count
toward an investigator’s skill value for that test.
Æ Committing cards to another investigator’s skill test.
You can only commit 1 card at maximum to a skill test
being performed by another investigator. You can only
commit cards to a skill test at your location.
Æ “Cannot” is absolute. Card effects and abilities with
the word “cannot” are unable to be overridden under
any circumstance.
Æ Forced abilities. “Forced –” effects take priority over
player card abilities during timing conflicts.
Æ Triggering  abilities. Reaction  abilities are always
optional triggers.
Æ The  token sets your total skill value to 0 during a
skill test. This is especially relevant for treachery effects
that might deal horror/damage “for each point you fail by.”
Æ Enemies spawn engaged. Unless the enemy has specific
spawn instructions or the aloof keyword, an enemy
drawn from the encounter deck spawns engaged with the
investigator who drew it.
Æ Treacheries in another investigator’s threat area. You
may trigger  abilities on treacheries in the threat areas
of other investigators at your location if they need help.
Æ Putting locations into play. Unless otherwise stated, a
location always enters play with its unrevealed side faceup
(not showing its shroud or clue values).
Æ Use the Grim Rule only when necessary. The
aforementioned Grim Rule is only invoked for situations
in which you cannot agree or decide how to proceed. (See
“Grim Rule” on page 32.)34
RULEBOOK
Card Anatomy
This section presents a detailed anatomy of each cardtype. Pages
34–35 detail scenario cards, and pages 36–37 detail investigator
and player cards.
Scenario cards include act cards, agenda cards, location cards, treachery
cards, enemy cards, and scenario reference cards.
Player cards include investigator cards, investigator mini cards, asset cards,
event cards, and skill cards. Unrevealed Location
Scenario Card Anatomy Key
1. Encounter Set Symbol:
The symbol indicating the
encounter set this card
belongs to.
2. Cardtype: This card’s type,
which determines how it
is used in the game.
3. Title: This card’s name.
4. Traits: Flavorful attributes
that may be referenced by
card abilities.
5. Ability: This card’s text
box, which may contain
keywords or other effects
that impact the game.
6. Enemy Fight Value: The
difficulty of a skill test to
attack this enemy.
7. Enemy Health Value: This
enemy’s health value,
which determines how
much damage it can take
before being defeated.
8. Enemy Evade Value:
Determines the difficulty
of a skill test to evade this
enemy.
9. Damage: The amount of
damage this enemy deals
when it attacks.
10. Horror: The amount of
horror this enemy deals
when it attacks.
11. Shroud: The difficulty of
a skill test to investigate
this location.
12. Clue Value: The number
of clues placed on this
location when it is first
revealed.
13. Connection Icons:
Symbols used to show
which locations are
connected to which.
14. Act/Agenda Sequence:
Numbering indicating the
act/agenda deck order.
15. Clue Threshold: The
number of clues that
must be spent to advance
this act.
16. Doom Threshold: The
amount of doom in play
required to advance
this agenda during the
mythos phase.
17. Product Set
Information: This card’s
unique ID, paired with its
expansion symbol.
18. Encounter Set Number:
The numerical ID of
the current card in the
specific encounter set
it belongs to and the
total number of cards in
that set.
Revealed Location
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113b
L O C AT I O N
The dorm is quickly filling with smoke.
: Engage. Choose an enemy at a
connecting location. That enemy moves to this
location and engages you. This action does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
2 2
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 9/11 113a
L O C AT I O N
Your friend’s room is in utter disarray. But are these signs of a
weary mind, or of some kind of struggle?
Miskatonic.
Your Friend’s Room
2
13
11 12
18
3
435
RULEBOOK
Agenda (side “a”)
Agenda (side “b”)
Act (side “a”)
Act (side “b”)
Treachery Enemy
Illus. Nele Diel © 2026 FFG 2/11 106
Agenda 1a
The campus is strangely quiet, and there
is no sign of your friend. Hooded figures
cross the quad as nervous students scurry
under painfully bright streetlamps.
: Parley. Test  (2). If you
succeed, discard a Bystander enemy at
your location.
Past Curfew
3
Illus. William Thomas Arnold © 2026 FFG 5/11 109
Act 1a
You are searching the dormitories for any
sign of your friend.
Objective – At the end of the round,
investigators may spend the requisite
clues, as a group, to advance.
Where There’s Smoke…
2
AGENDA
1b The wind carries the scent of smoke from across campus.
A plume of flame rises from a nearby building.
In player order, each investigator tests  (3).
Each investigator who fails takes 1 horror.
Smoke on the Wind
ACT 1b
You find your friend’s satchel, scorched with a stylized
emblem of an open palm. Wherever your friend is, you
imagine they didn’t go willingly. As you turn to leave,
you are confronted by a masked figure wreathed in
flame. As the room erupts into flames around you, they
let out a chilling wail.
Discard each enemy in play.
Put the set-aside Dormitories and Miskatonic Quad
locations into play. Spawn the set-aside Servant of
Flame enemy at the Dormitories.
Attach 1 set-aside copy of Fire! to Your Friend’s
Room. Place each other set-aside copy of Fire! in the
encounter discard pile.
…There’s Fire
Illus. Walter Brocca © 2026 FFG 1/3 124
T R E A C H E RY
Peril.
Revelation – You must either (choose one):
= Place 1 doom on the current agenda. This
effect can cause the agenda to advance.
= Take 1 direct damage and 1 direct horror.
Cosmic Evils gains surge.
Omen.
Cosmic Evils
Illus. Peter Polach © 2026 FFG 10/11 114
E N E M Y
Hunter. Prey (lowest ). Retaliate.
Humanoid. Elite.
Servant of Flame
Raging Fury
Victory 2.
4 5 4
3 14
14 14
16
15
3 1 4 5
17 9
4
7
6
8
1036
RULEBOOK
Investigator
Player Card Anatomy Key
1. Cost: The number of
resources required to play
this card.
2. Level: The experience
cost to purchase this card
when deckbuilding.
3. Cardtype: This card’s
type, which determines
how it is used in the game.
4. Class Symbol: The
class to which this card
belongs. Neutral cards
have no class symbol.
5. Title: This card’s name.
6. Subtitle: A secondary
identifier for a card.
7. Skills: This investigator’s
skill values, in order:
Willpower (), Intellect
(), Combat (),
Agility ().
8. Traits: Flavorful
attributes that may
be referenced by
card abilities.
9. Ability: This card’s text
box, which may contain
keywords or other effects
that impact the game.
10. Elder Sign Ability: The
modifier and ability used
when this investigator
draws the  token.
11. Health: This card’s health
value, which determines
how much damage it can
take before being defeated.
12. Sanity: This card’s sanity
value, which determines
how much horror it can
take before being defeated.
13. Skill Test Icons:
Icons which modify
an investigator’s skill
value while this card is
committed to a matching
skill test.
14. Product Set
Information: This card’s
unique ID, paired with its
expansion symbol.
Investigator Mini-Card
Seeker
INVESTIGATOR
Illus. Aleksander Karcz © 2026 FFG 4
“I can’t stop now.
Not when I’m so close
to the truth.”
 After you successfully
investigate: Draw 1 card.
(Limit once per round.)
 effect: +1. If you succeed,
draw 1 card and gain
1 resource.
Detective.
Joe Diamond
The Private Investigator
2 4 4 2
7 7
11 12
10
8 9
6
5
4
737
RULEBOOK
Event
Skill
Asset
Illus. Alexandr Elichev © 2026 FFG 65
EVENT
Fast. Play when you draw a non-weakness
treachery card.
Cancel that card’s revelation effect and take
1 horror.
Spell. Spirit.
Ward of Protection
1
Illus. Nia Kovalevski © 2026 FFG 80
SKILL
If this skill test is successful while evading a nonElite enemy, that enemy does not ready during
the next upkeep phase.
Practiced.
Slippery
Illus. Elijah Ring © 2026 FFG 18
ASSET
“Preparing for Armageddon seems insane
until it’s the end of the world!”
You get +1 .
 After you defeat an enemy, exhaust Logan
Hastings: Gain 1 resource.
Ally. Hunter.
Logan Hastings
Bounty Hunter
4
2 1
1
2
6
11 12
3
4
8
13
9
14
538
RULEBOOK
Glossary of Terms and Keywords
The following is a limited glossary of rules and keywords essential for
playing with this core set. It is not intended to be a definitive reference. For
a comprehensive glossary of terms and keywords, refer to the Arkham
Grimoire online at www.fantasyflightgames.com or by scanning the QR
code below:
Ability
An ability is the specialized game text that indicates how a card affects
the game. The various types of card abilities are: constant abilities, forced
abilities, revelation abilities, triggered abilities, keyword abilities, and
enemy instructions such as spawn.
Æ Card abilities only interact with other game elements if the card
bearing that ability is in play, unless the ability (or the rules for the
cardtype) specifically references its use from an out-of-play area.
Æ Card abilities only interact with other cards that are in play, unless
that ability (or the rules for the cardtype) specifically references an
interaction with cards in an out-of-play area.
Æ If multiple instances of the same ability are in play, each instance
interacts with (or may interact with) its target individually.
Action Designators
Some abilities have bold action designators (such as Fight, Evade,
Investigate, or Move). Activating such an ability allows an investigator to
perform the designated action as described in the rules, modified according
to that ability’s designator.
Æ If the ability requires a skill test, the skill being tested for that ability is
indicated after the bold action designator. (For example,  Fight ()
indicates that the skill being tested is .)
Alert
Alert is a keyword ability.
Each time an investigator fails a skill test while attempting to evade a ready
enemy with the alert keyword, after applying all results for that skill test,
that enemy performs an attack against the evading investigator. An enemy
does not exhaust after performing an alert attack.
Æ This attack occurs whether or not the enemy is engaged with the
evading investigator.
Aloof
Aloof is a keyword ability.
An enemy with the aloof keyword does not automatically engage
investigators at its location.
Æ When an aloof enemy spawns, it spawns unengaged.
Æ An investigator may use an engage action or a card ability to engage an
aloof enemy.
Æ An investigator cannot attack or evade an aloof enemy while that
enemy is not engaged with an investigator.
Attachments
A card including the phrase “attach to” indicates that as it enters play, it
must be attached to (placed beneath and slightly overlapped by) the target
game element. Once attached, such a card is referred to as an attachment.
An attachment remains attached until either the attachment or the game
element it is attached to leaves play (in which case the attachment is
discarded), unless a card ability explicitly detaches the card.
Attack of Opportunity
Each time an investigator engaged with one or more ready enemies takes
an action other than Fight, Evade, Parley, or Resign, each engaged enemy
attacks them. This is called an attack of opportunity.
Æ The investigator who triggered the attack(s) of opportunity chooses the
order in which attacks of opportunity resolve.
Æ An attack of opportunity is made immediately after the investigator
has paid all costs for initiating the action that provoked the attack of
opportunity, but before that action’s effects are resolved.
Æ An ability that costs more than one action only provokes one attack of
opportunity from each engaged enemy.
Æ An enemy does not exhaust while making an attack of opportunity.
Æ After all attacks of opportunity are made, the investigator resolves the
action which provoked the attack.
Æ Attacks of opportunity count as enemy attacks for the purposes of card
abilities.
Cannot
The word “cannot” is absolute, and cannot be countermanded by
other abilities.
Cardtypes
The game’s cardtypes are introduced in “Card Anatomy” on page 34.
If an ability causes a card to change its cardtype, it loses all other cardtypes
it might possess and functions as would any card of the new cardtype.
Act Cards
Act cards are part of the act deck, and represent the progress the
investigators make during the current scenario. Generally, advancing the
act deck is good for the investigators.
Agenda Cards
Agenda cards are part of the agenda deck, and represent the progress
and objectives of the dark forces arrayed against the investigators during
the current scenario. Generally, advancing the agenda deck is bad for
the investigators.
Asset Cards
Asset cards represent items, allies, talents, spells, and other reserves that
may assist or be used by an investigator during the current scenario. When
an investigator plays an asset, it is placed in their play area. Generally, assets
remain in play unless discarded by a card ability or scenario effect.
Æ Some assets have health and/or sanity. When an investigator is dealt
damage or horror, that investigator may assign some or all of that
damage or horror to eligible asset cards they control, up to that asset’s
health/sanity value(s).
Æ Most assets take up one or more slots while in play. (See “Equipment
Slots” on page 12.)
Enemy Cards
Enemy cards represent villains, cultists, terrible monsters, and
unfathomable entities from alternate dimensions or the cosmos beyond.
Enemies are drawn from the encounter deck and may attack investigators
during their turn, the enemy phase, and/or during the mythos phase.39
Event Cards
Event cards represent tactical actions, maneuvers, spells, tricks, and other
instantaneous effects at a player’s disposal. Any time a player plays an event
card, its cost is paid, its effects are resolved (or canceled), and the card is
placed in that investigator’s discard pile.
Location Cards
Location cards represent the places the investigators may explore during a
scenario. Place an investigator token or mini-card at a location to indicate
where the investigator is located. While an investigator is at a location, that
investigator, each of their assets, and each card in that investigator’s threat
area is considered to be at the same location.
Scenario Reference Cards
The scenario reference card is placed next to the agenda deck during
scenario setup. The scenario reference card provides a list of effects for each
symbol token used during that scenario.
Skill Cards
Skill cards represent innate or learned attributes or character traits that
improve an investigator’s skill tests. Skill cards do not have a cost and
cannot be played from a player’s hand. In order to resolve its ability, a skill
card must be committed to a skill test.
Treachery Cards
Treachery cards represent curses, afflictions, madnesses, obstacles,
disasters, or other unexpected occurrences an investigator may encounter
throughout the course of a scenario. When a treachery card is drawn by
an investigator, that investigator must resolve its effects. Then, that card is
placed in its discard pile unless otherwise instructed by an ability.
Chaos Tokens
Chaos tokens are revealed from the chaos bag during skill tests to modify
or influence the results of a skill test. (See “Skill Tests” on page 15.)
Clues
Clue tokens represent the progress the investigators can make towards
solving a mystery, unraveling a conspiracy, and/or advancing the story.
Æ The first time an investigator enters a location (even during setup), that
location is revealed (turned faceup) and a number of clues equal to its
clue value are placed on that location from the token pool. Most clue
values use a “per investigator ()” value.
Æ A clue on a location can be discovered by successfully investigating
that location (see “Investigate” on page 13), or by a card ability. If
an investigator discovers a clue, they take a clue from that location and
place it on their investigator card, under their control.
Æ If there are no “Objective –” requirements for advancing the current
act, during any investigator’s turn the investigators may, as a group,
spend the requisite number of clues (usually conveyed as a “per
investigator” value) from their investigator cards to advance the
act deck. This is normally done as a  player ability. Any
number of investigators may contribute clues towards the
total number of clues required to advance the act.
Æ A card ability that refers to clues “at a location” or “on a
location” is referring to the undiscovered clue tokens
that are currently on that location card.
Æ If a player card such as an investigator or asset is
defeated or discarded, place all clues that were on
that player card on their current location.
The Codex 
Some cards have the codex symbol () on them. During a scenario, some
card effects and abilities may direct players to read a specific codex entry.
While playing, keep the campaign guide on hand for easy reference.
Certain locations, characters, and enemies have codex entries, marked
with ( X). To read a codex entry, pay all costs and/or resolve all effects
associated with its triggering ability, then read the corresponding entry for
the current scenario in the campaign guide and resolve its text.
Æ Each codex entry cannot be resolved more than once per scenario
unless otherwise stated.
Æ When resolving a codex entry, the player who triggered that entry
resolves all effects (resolving a test, dealing damage, paying resources,
etc). If it is unclear who triggered the codex entry, the lead investigator
resolves the entry.
Æ Codex entries that are triggered via a specific action type (such as
Fight, Evade, Parley, etc.) are considered to be that action type
throughout the resolution of that codex entry.
Æ While resolving a codex entry, a player only reads the section for which
they meet the requirements. If they do not meet the requirements to
resolve the first section of a codex entry, skip to the following section.
Æ If a card effect directs players to resolve a codex entry that does not
exist for the scenario being played, that effect fails.
Æ After resolving a codex entry and making any changes to the game and/
or in the campaign log, resume play.
Constant Ability
A constant ability is a type of card ability.
A constant ability is always interacting with other game elements as long as
the card it is printed on is in play.
Æ Some constant abilities require a specific condition to be met. These
abilities are denoted by words such as “during” or “while,” and the
effects of such abilities are active whenever the specified condition
is met.
Æ Constant abilities do not trigger at any specific point.
RULEBOOKCosts
Most card abilities require a cost to be paid in order to initiate. There are
two types of costs in the game: resource costs and ability costs.
A card’s resource cost is the numerical value that must be paid (in
resources) to play the card from hand. To pay a resource cost, an
investigator takes the specified number of resources from their resource
pool and places them in the token pool.
An ability cost is presented in a “cost: effect” construct. Some card abilities
require players to spend additional resources, take damage/horror, or meet
other conditions in order to trigger. In such a construct, the ability costs
and triggering conditions precede the colon, and all of the text following
the colon is that ability’s effect.
Æ If playing a card or triggering an ability with multiple costs, those costs
must be paid simultaneously.
Æ Only the controller of the card or ability may pay its costs.
Æ When a player is exhausting, discarding, or otherwise using cards to
pay costs, only cards that are in play and under that player’s control may
be used, unless the cost specifies an out-of-play state.
Æ If a cost requires a game element that is not in play (such as discarding
one or more cards from hand) the player paying that cost may only use
game elements they control, such as their hand or deck, to pay the cost.
Æ If the investigators are instructed to pay a cost as a group, each
investigator (or each investigator in the group defined by the ability)
may contribute to paying the cost.
Æ An ability cannot be initiated—and therefore its costs cannot be
paid—if the resolution of its effect will not affect or change its target.
Æ If an investigator takes damage or horror as an ability cost and assigns
any of it to an asset they control, the cost is still considered paid.
Defeat
Taking damage and/or horror may cause an investigator, enemy, or asset to
be defeated.
Æ If an investigator has damage on their investigator card equal to or
greater than the card’s health value, that investigator is defeated. If an
investigator has horror on their investigator card equal to or greater than
the card’s sanity value, that investigator is defeated. A card ability may
also defeat an investigator. When an investigator is defeated, they are
eliminated from the current scenario. (See “Elimination” on page 41.)
Æ In campaign play, an investigator who is defeated by taking damage
equal to or greater than their health suffers 1 physical trauma. An
investigator who is defeated by taking horror equal to their sanity
suffers 1 mental trauma. Taking trauma may cause an investigator to
be killed or driven insane. (See “Trauma, Death, and Insanity” on
page 22.)
Æ If an enemy has damage on it equal to or greater than its health value,
that enemy is defeated and placed in the encounter discard pile (or
in its owner’s discard pile if it is a weakness). Defeated enemies with
victory X are placed in the victory display.
Æ If an asset has damage on it equal to or greater than its health value, it
is defeated. If an asset has horror on it equal to or greater than its sanity
value, it is defeated. A defeated asset is placed in its owner’s discard pile.
Doom
Doom tokens represent the progress the forces of the Mythos make
towards completing foul rituals, summoning cosmic entities, and/or
advancing the story in an unfavorable direction.
Æ During each Mythos phase, 1 doom is placed on the current agenda.
(See “The Mythos Phase” on page 18.)
Æ If there are no “Objective –” requirements for advancing the current
agenda and the requisite amount of doom is in play (among the agenda
and all cards in play), the agenda advances during step 2 of the mythos
phase. Unless a card or keyword ability specifies that it can advance the
agenda, this is the only time at which the agenda can advance.41
RULEBOOK
Doomed
Doomed is a keyword ability.
When an enemy with the doomed keyword is defeated (either by an
investigator or a scenario effect), place 1 doom on the current agenda. This
effect can cause the current agenda to advance.
Æ An effect that “discards” an enemy is not considered to defeat that
enemy and does not trigger the doomed keyword.
Elimination
A player is eliminated from a scenario when their investigator is defeated,
or if they resign. The only manner in which eliminated investigators
continue to affect the game is when establishing “per investigator” values
(see “Per Investigator ()” on page 5). Any time a player is eliminated:
Æ An investigator who has been eliminated from the current scenario is
not necessarily eliminated from the campaign.
Æ For the purpose of resolving weakness cards, the game has ended for
the eliminated investigator. Trigger any “when the game ends” abilities
on each weakness the eliminated investigator owns that is in play (or, in
rare cases, their hand). Then, remove those weaknesses from the game.
Æ The cards that player owns that are currently in play and all of the cards
in their play area (such as hand, deck, discard pile) are removed from
the game.
Æ Any card that player owns but does not control that is currently in play
remains in play. If that card leaves play, it is removed from the game.
Æ All clue tokens that player possesses are placed on the location where
the investigator was when they were eliminated, and all of their
resource tokens are returned to the token pool.
Æ All enemies in that player’s threat area are placed at the location where
the investigator was when they were eliminated.
Æ All other cards in the eliminated investigator’s threat area are placed in
the appropriate discard pile(s).
Æ If the lead investigator is eliminated, the remaining players (if any)
choose a new lead investigator to take the lead investigator token.
Æ If there are no remaining investigators in the game, the scenario ends.
Refer to the “no resolution was reached” entry for that scenario in the
campaign guide.
Elusive
Elusive is a keyword ability.
Elusive enemies represent enemies who want to avoid the investigators
for their own survival or to accomplish their own goals. If a ready enemy
with the elusive keyword attacks or is attacked, after that attack resolves,
that enemy immediately disengages from all investigators, moves to a
connecting location (with no investigators if able), and exhausts.
Æ This effect occurs whether or not the enemy was engaged with the
attacking investigator.
Encounter Deck
The encounter deck contains the encounter cards (enemy, treachery, and
other cards specified by the scenario) the investigators must face during the
current scenario.
Æ If the encounter deck is empty, shuffle the encounter discard pile back
into the encounter deck.
Æ If the encounter deck runs out of cards while resolving a card ability
or game effect, after resolving that effect in full, shuffle the encounter
discard pile back into the encounter deck.
Exceptional
Exceptional is a deckbuilding keyword ability.
Æ A card with the exceptional keyword costs twice its printed experience
cost (the card’s level) to purchase.
Æ An investigator deck cannot include more than one copy (by title) of an
exceptional card.
Exhaust, Exhausted
A card that is rotated 90 degrees sideways is considered to be exhausted.
A card can become exhausted either as part of an ability cost or other game
effect. When a card exhausts, it is rotated 90 degrees (sideways).
Æ An exhausted card cannot exhaust again until it is ready (typically
during the upkeep phase or via a card ability).
Fast
Fast is a keyword ability. A fast card does not cost an action to be played
and is not played using the “Play” action.
Æ Playing a fast card does not provoke attacks of opportunity because it
does not cost an action to play.
Æ A fast asset may only be played by an investigator during a player
window on their turn.
Æ A fast event may be played from a player’s hand any time its play
instructions specify.
Æ If a card’s play instructions specify that it is played “when/after” a
specific timing point, that timing point is the triggering condition for
playing the card.
Æ If a card’s play instructions specify that it is played during a specific
duration or period of time, it may be played during any player window
within that period.
Æ If a card’s instructions specify both a “when/after” timing point and a
specific duration or period of time, it may be played in reference to any
instance of the specified triggering condition during any player window
within that time period.
Forced Ability
A forced ability is a type of card ability.
Forced abilities are identified by a bold “Forced –” instruction. Forced
abilities trigger at a specific timing point. Such a timing point is usually
indicated by words such as: “when,” “after,” “if,” or “at.”
Æ A forced ability does not trigger if it cannot affect its target.
Æ A forced ability must trigger each time its specified timing point is met,
so long as it can affect its target.
Æ A forced ability that triggers “when” its timing point occurs is triggered
as soon as the specified timing point is met, but before its impact upon
the game resolves. (For example, an effect that states “Forced – When you
play an asset: Take 1 horror.” deals 1 horror when the asset is being played,
but before that asset enters play.)
Æ A forced ability that triggers “after” its timing point occurs is triggered
immediately after its impact upon the game resolves.
Æ Forced abilities take precedence over player card abilities. All forced
abilities triggered at a specific timing point must be resolved in full
before triggering any  abilities referencing the same timing point.42
RULEBOOK
Health and Damage
Health represents a card’s physical fortitude. Damage tokens track the
physical harm that has been done to a card during a scenario.
Æ When a card takes damage, place that many damage tokens on the card.
Æ If an investigator card has damage on it equal to or in greater than its
health value, that investigator is defeated. When an investigator is
defeated, they are eliminated from the current scenario.
Æ In campaign play, an investigator who is defeated by damage suffers
1 physical trauma. Taking physical trauma may cause an investigator to
be killed.
Æ If an enemy has damage on it equal to or greater than its health value,
that enemy is defeated.
Æ If an asset has damage on it equal to or greater than its health value, it
is defeated.
Æ An asset card without a health value cannot be assigned damage.
Æ A card’s remaining health is its health value, plus or minus any active
health modifiers, minus the amount of damage on it.
Æ If an investigator takes “direct damage” that damage must be assigned
to their investigator card.
Hunter
Hunter is a keyword ability.
At the start of the enemy phase, each ready, unengaged enemy with the
hunter keyword moves to a connecting location, along the shortest path
towards the nearest investigator. Enemies at a location with one or more
investigators do not move.
Æ Some enemies may target specific prey. (See “Prey” on page 43.)
Æ If there are multiple equidistant investigators who qualify as “the
nearest investigator,” the hunter enemy moves towards the one who
best meets its designated target. If none do, or if the enemy has no prey
keyword, the lead investigator decides.
Æ If a hunter enemy would be compelled to move into a location but is
blocked by a card ability, that enemy does not move.
In Play and Out of Play
The cards that a player controls in their play area are considered in play.
The current act, the current agenda, the scenario reference card, each
location in the play space, and each encounter card in an investigator’s
threat area or at a location are all considered in play.
Cards in a player’s hand, in any deck, in any discard pile, in the victory
display, and those that have been set aside and/or removed from the game
are all considered out of play.
Æ A card enters play when it transitions from an out-of-play origin to an
in-play area.
Æ A card leaves play when it transitions from an in-play area to an out-ofplay destination.
Æ Tokens on cards that are in play are considered in-play. Resources in
each investigator’s resource pool are also considered in-play.
Keywords
A keyword is a type of card ability.
Keywords are used as shorthand for some game effects. Each keyword has
its own unique rules.
Æ Some keywords are deckbuilding keywords, such as permanent and
exceptional. These keywords affect deck customization while building
and/or leveling up an investigator deck.
Æ A card cannot gain the same keyword more than once. (For example, an
agenda and treachery effect that each give an enemy the retaliate keyword
do not give that enemy the retaliate keyword twice.)
Æ The initiation of any keyword using the word “may” in its rules text is
optional; the application of all other keywords is mandatory.
Limbo
While resolving an event or treachery card’s effects, or while a skill card is
committed to a skill test, those cards are neither in play, in the discard pile,
nor in an investigator’s hand. This liminal state is called limbo.
An event card enters limbo after costs are paid and attacks of opportunity
are made. A treachery card enters limbo after it is drawn, while its
revelation ability is being resolved. A skill card enters limbo when it is
committed to a skill test.
While in limbo, the card is typically placed on the table to show that its
effects are being resolved. While in limbo, a card does not count as being in
play for the purposes of other card effects.
After resolving that card’s effects in full, it leaves limbo and is placed in its
relevant discard pile. If its effects cause it to enter play (by attaching the
card to another game element or by placing it in an investigator’s threat or
play area), it leaves limbo and enters play.
Limits and Maximums
Some cards contain limits and maximums which prevent certain abilities
from being used more than once within a given time period.
Æ Unless stated otherwise, limits are player specific.
Æ A “group limit” applies to the entire group of investigators. (For
example, if an investigator triggers an ability that is “group limit once per
game,” no other investigator may trigger that ability during that game.)
“Limit X per [period]” is a limit that appears on some cards and represents
the number of times (X) an ability’s effect can be triggered over the
designated period. If a copy of the card with “Limit X per [period]” leaves
and re-enters play within the same period, the limit X for that card is reset,
as if the card had just entered the game for the first time.
“Limit X per [card/game element]” is a limit that appears on some cards,
and restricts the number of copies of that card (by title) that can be in play
at the same time.
“Max X per [period]” imposes the maximum number of times that copies
of that card (by title) can be played during the designated time period.
Æ If a maximum includes the word “committed” (e.g., “Max 1 committed
per skill test”), it imposes the maximum number of copies of that
card (by title) that can be committed to skill tests during the
designated period.
Æ If a maximum appears as part of an ability, it imposes the maximum
number of times that ability can be triggered from all copies (by title)
of cards bearing that ability (including the card being resolved), during
the designated period.
Æ If the effect of a card or an ability with a limit or maximum is canceled,
that effect still counts against the limit/maximum for that for that
ability, because that ability has been triggered.43
RULEBOOK
Massive
Massive is a keyword ability.
A ready enemy with the massive keyword is considered to be engaged with
each investigator at its current location.
Æ An exhausted enemy with the massive keyword is not considered to be
engaged with any investigators.
Æ An enemy with the massive keyword cannot be placed in an
investigator’s threat area.
Æ When an enemy with the massive keyword attacks during the enemy
phase, resolve an attack against each investigator it is engaged with, one
investigator at a time, in the order chosen by the lead investigator. The
enemy with the massive keyword does not exhaust until each attack has
been resolved.
Æ When an enemy with the massive keyword makes an attack of
opportunity, that attack only resolves against the investigator who
provoked the attack.
Æ An enemy with the massive keyword does not move with an engaged
investigator who moves away from its current location.
Æ If an investigator fails an attack targeting an enemy with the massive
keyword, no damage is dealt to other investigators engaged with that
enemy.
Ownership and Control
A card’s owner is the player whose deck and/or respective in- and out-ofplay areas contained the card at the start of the game.
A player controls the cards located in their in- and out-of-play spaces (such
as their hand, deck, and discard pile).
The scenario controls the scenario cards in its in- and out-of-play spaces
(such as the encounter deck, act and agenda decks, and the encounter
discard pile).
Æ Cards by default enter play under their owner’s control. Some abilities
may cause cards to change control during a game.
Æ If a card would enter an out-of-play area that does not belong to that
card’s owner, it is physically placed in its owner’s corresponding
out-of-play area instead. The card is considered to have entered its
controller’s out-of-play area, and only the physical placement of the
card is adjusted.
Patrol
Patrol is a keyword ability.
At the start of the enemy phase, each ready, unengaged enemy with the
patrol keyword moves to a connecting location along the shortest path
toward the designated target, indicated in the parentheses after the
patrol keyword.
Æ If there are multiple locations that qualify as the designated target, the
lead investigator chooses which target the enemy patrols toward.
Æ If the designated target is not a location (and is instead another game
element such as an enemy or story asset), that target’s location indicates
the target of the patrol keyword’s resolution.
Æ If an enemy with the patrol keyword would be compelled to move toward
a target but is blocked by a card ability, that enemy does not move.
Peril
Peril is a keyword ability.
While an investigator is resolving an encounter card with the peril
keyword, they cannot confer with the other players. Other players cannot
play cards, trigger abilities, or commit cards to that investigator’s skill
test(s) while the peril encounter card is being resolved.
Permanent
Permanent is a deckbuilding keyword ability.
Æ A card with the permanent keyword does not count towards an
investigator’s deck size.
Æ A card with the permanent keyword still counts as being part of an
investigator deck and adheres to all deckbuilding restrictions.
Æ A card with the permanent keyword starts each game in play and
cannot leave play (unless its owner is eliminated).
Æ A card with the permanent keyword cannot be chosen as a target to be
attached to other player cards (although other player cards may target a
permanent card and attach themselves to it).
Prey
Prey is a keyword ability.
Given the opportunity, some enemies will pursue a designated investigator.
These enemies are identified with the prey keyword.
Æ The prey keyword is followed by a designated target with whom the
enemy should engage in parentheses. For example, “Prey (highest )”
means that the enemy will engage the investigator with the highest
willpower if given more than one option.
Æ Given the choice between multiple equidistant investigators (or
between investigators at its location), an enemy with the prey keyword
chooses the investigator who best meets its designated target.
Æ If an enemy’s designated target contains the word “only,” that enemy
only moves towards and engages that investigator (as if they were the
only investigator in play), and ignores all other investigators while
moving and engaging. Other investigators may use the engage action or
card abilities to engage the enemy.
Æ The prey keyword has no immediate effect on where an enemy will spawn.44
RULEBOOK
Ready
A card that is in an upright state so that its controller can read its text from
left to right is considered ready.
Æ Cards enter play in a ready state.
Æ When an exhausted card readies, it is returned to the ready state and
rotated 90 degrees so that it is upright.
Æ A ready card cannot ready again (it must first be exhausted, typically by
a game effect or card ability).
Resources
Resources represent the various financial means of acquiring new supplies,
tools, knowledge, favors, allies, etc. Resource tokens are used to pay the
resource costs necessary to play cards and trigger different abilities.
Æ In order to play a card or use an ability that costs resources, an
investigator must pay that card or ability’s resource cost by taking the
specified number of resources from their resource pool and returning
them to the token pool.
Æ Resources can be gained by performing the resource action.
Æ Investigators acquire one resource during each Upkeep phase, after
drawing one card.
Retaliate
Retaliate is a keyword ability.
Each time an investigator fails a skill test while attacking a ready enemy
with the retaliate keyword, after applying all results for that skill test, that
enemy performs an attack against the attacking investigator. An enemy
does not exhaust after performing a retaliate attack.
Æ This attack occurs whether or not the enemy is engaged with the
attacking investigator.
Revelation
A revelation ability is a type of card ability.
Revelation abilities most often appear on treacheries or on weaknesses.
Æ When an investigator draws an encounter card, that investigator must
immediately resolve its revelation ability. This occurs before the card
enters play or—if it is a treachery—while it is in limbo. (See “Limbo”
on page 42.)
Æ When a weakness card enters an investigator’s hand by any means, that
investigator must immediately resolve the revelation ability on that
card as if it were just drawn.
Reward
Reward is a deckbuilding keyword ability.
Cards with the reward keyword appear in campaigns and/or scenario packs
as campaign rewards.
Æ Reward cards are neutral cards with a golden graphic in the upper left
corner of the card.
Æ When the campaign rules inform the players that they have earned a
reward card (often through resolution or interlude text), that card is
added to the collection of player cards. Players cannot use a reward
card in deckbuilding, and cannot play such a card, unless it has been
unlocked by an outcome in the campaign.
Æ Reward cards may adjust the way players play the game by adding
deckbuilding options, new abilities, or unique restrictions to an
investigator deck.
Æ Investigators are not required to include any unlocked campaign
reward cards in their decks.
Sanity and Horror
Sanity represents a character’s mental and emotional fortitude, or the emotional
strength a card lends to an investigator. Horror tokens track the harm that has
been done to the investigator’s psyche by exposure to the Mythos.
Æ When a card takes horror, place that many horror tokens on the card.
Æ If an investigator card has horror on it equal to or in greater than its
sanity value, that investigator is defeated. When an investigator is
defeated, they are eliminated from the current scenario.
Æ In campaign play, an investigator who is defeated by horror suffers
1 mental trauma. Taking mental trauma may cause an investigator to be
driven insane.
Æ If an asset has horror on it equal to or greater than its sanity value, it
is defeated.
Æ An asset card without a sanity value cannot be assigned horror.
Æ A card’s remaining sanity is its sanity value, plus or minus any active
sanity modifiers, minus the amount of horror on it.
Æ If an investigator takes “direct horror” that horror must be assigned to
their investigator card.
Seal
Seal is a keyword ability.
When a card ability instructs a player to seal a token, that player must
search the chaos bag for the specified chaos token and place it on top of that
card, thereby sealing it.
Æ If there is a choice of which token to seal, the card’s controller chooses.
Æ Treat the seal keyword as a cost to play a player card. If the specified
token is not in the chaos bag, the card either cannot be played or its seal
ability cannot be triggered.
Æ A sealed chaos token is not considered to be in the chaos bag, and
cannot be revealed from the chaos bag as part of a skill test or ability.
Æ When a sealed chaos token is released, it is returned to the chaos
bag and is no longer sealed. If a card with one or more chaos tokens
sealed on it leaves play for any reason, all chaos tokens sealed on it are
immediately released.
Æ If instructed to “seal” a token by a card ability or by a card without the
seal keyword, the same process as above is used.
= When sealing a token in this way, search the chaos bag for the specified
token, remove it from the chaos bag, and place it on the specified card.
If the targeted token is not in the chaos bag, the effect fails.
Starting
Starting is a keyword ability.
After drawing their opening hand and taking a mulligan (but before
shuffling any cards that may have been set aside during this step back into
the deck), an investigator may search their deck for one copy of a card with
the starting keyword and add it to their hand.
Æ This means that an investigator may begin the game with 1 additional
card in their opening hand.
Surge
Surge is a keyword ability.
After an investigator draws and resolves an encounter card that has the
surge keyword, that investigator must draw and resolve another card.
Æ If an investigator draws a card with the surge keyword during setup, the
surge keyword still resolves.45
RULEBOOK
Target
An ability or game effect must have a valid target in order to resolve.
The term “choose” indicates that one or more targets must be chosen in
order for an ability or game effect to resolve. The player resolving an ability
must choose a game element (usually a card) that meets the targeting
requirements of that ability.
Æ If an ability or game effect requires an investigator to choose one or
more targets, that ability or effect can only be initiated if there is at least
one valid target.
Æ If an ability or game effect requires a player to choose more than one
target, the targets are chosen simultaneously.
Æ If an ability requires a player to choose “any number” of targets, it
cannot be initiated if zero of those targets are chosen.
Æ If a chosen target’s status cannot be changed by the resolution of an
ability, then that target is not eligible to be chosen for that ability. (For
example, an exhausted enemy could not be chosen as the target of an effect
that reads “choose and exhaust an enemy.”)
Triggered Abilities
A triggered ability is an ability prefaced by a  icon, a  icon, or an
 icon. If the ability has one or more prerequisites, such as costs and/or
conditions, these are listed in text immediately following the icon. A player
must always meet the prerequisites of such an ability in order to trigger it.
All triggered abilities are governed by the following rules:
Æ A triggered ability on a card a player controls may be optionally
triggered when its timing point is met, as indicated by the ability.
Æ A triggered ability can only be initiated if a valid target can be chosen,
and its ability cost (if any) can be paid in full.
Æ Once an ability is initiated, players must resolve as much of the effect as
possible, unless the effect uses the word “may.”
There are three types of triggered abilities:
Æ Free triggered abilities ()— These abilities may be triggered as
a player ability during any player window.
Æ Reaction triggered abilities ()— These abilities have a specific
triggering condition and may be triggered at any time that triggering
condition is met. (For example: “ After you defeat an enemy:”)
= A  ability that triggers “when” its timing point occurs may be
triggered as soon as the specified timing point is met, but before that
timing point’s impact upon the game resolves.
= A  ability that triggers “after” its timing point occurs may be
triggered immediately after the timing point’s impact upon the
game resolves.
= Each  ability may be triggered only once each time the specified
condition on the ability is met. For example, an ability that is
triggered “After X occurs,” may be used once each time “X” occurs.
Æ Action triggered abilities ()— These abilities may be triggered
through the use of the activate action by spending one action for each
 specified in that ability’s cost.
Unique ()
A card with the  symbol before its title is a unique card. There can be no
more than one copy of each unique card (by title) in play at any given time.
Æ A player cannot bring a unique card into play if a copy of that card (by
title) is already in play.
Æ If a unique encounter card that shares a title with a unique player
card would enter play, discard the player card simultaneously as the
encounter card enters play.46
RULEBOOK
Uses (X)
Uses (X) is a keyword ability.
When a card bearing this keyword enters play, place a number of resource
tokens (from the token pool) equal to its value (X), on the card. The word
following the value defines the type of uses this card bears. The resource
tokens placed on that card are considered uses of the established type, and
are no longer considered resource tokens. (For example, Cosmic Flame has
“Uses (3 charges).” When it is played, 3 resources are placed on it from the token
pool. Those resources are now charges, and may be used when resolving Cosmic
Flame’s  ability.)
Æ Each card with the uses (X) keyword also has an ability which
references the uses on that card as a part of its cost. When such an
ability spends a use, a token of that type must be removed from the
card.
Æ Other cards may reference and interact with uses of a specified type,
usually by adding uses of that type to a card, or using uses of that type
for other abilities or effects.
Æ Only the type of uses defined by a card can be placed on that card. (For
example, a card with “Uses (4 ammo)” cannot be affected by an ability that
would place 1 or more charges on a card.)
Æ Some cards with the uses (X) keyword include a discard condition for
when there are no uses remaining. If the card contains no such text, it
remains in play even if there are no uses on it.
Æ If instructed to replenish an asset’s uses, place the specified number of
uses on that asset, up to (but not exceeding) its initial uses (X) value.
Victory X
Victory X is a keyword ability.
An encounter card worth victory points represents a formidable enemy or a
particularly puzzling location. Once they have been dealt with, cards with
victory X are added to the victory display until the end of the current
scenario. The victory display is an out-of-play space shared by all players.
Upon completion of the current scenario, the cards in the victory display
provide experience to each player, which can be spent to upgrade that
player’s investigator deck.
Æ When an enemy with victory X is defeated, add the card to the victory
display instead of discarding it.
Æ When the current scenario ends, add each location with victory X that
is in play, revealed, and with no clues on it to the victory display.
Æ After a treachery card with victory X is resolved, add it to the victory
display instead of discarding it.
Weakness
Weaknesses are a unique subtype of player cards. These cards represent
character flaws, curses, madnesses, injuries, tasks, enemies, or story
elements that are part of an investigator’s backstory or that are acquired
over the course of a campaign. Weakness cards are resolved differently
depending upon their cardtype.
Æ When an investigator draws a weakness card, they resolve that card as if
it were just drawn from the encounter deck.
Æ When an investigator draws a weakness card of a player cardtype (for
example, an asset, event, or skill weakness), they resolve any revelation
abilities on that card and add it to their hand. That card may then be
used as any other player card of its cardtype.
Æ If a weakness card enters an investigator’s hand in a manner that did
not involve drawing the card, that investigator must resolve that card
(including any revelation abilities) as if they had just drawn it.
Æ If a weakness card is added to a player’s deck, hand, or threat area
during a scenario, that investigator becomes the bearer of that
weakness. That card does not count toward that investigator’s deck
size and remains a part of that investigator’s deck for the rest of the
campaign unless it is removed from the campaign by a card ability or
scenario resolution.
Æ A player cannot choose to discard a weakness card from hand, unless a
card explicitly specifies otherwise.
Æ Some effects reference a “basic weakness.” A basic weakness can be
identified by the presence of the words “Basic Weakness” and the
following symbol:
Illus. Pixoloid Studios © 2026 FFG 5/5 120
L O C AT I O N
Students have reported strange sounds
coming from the empty archives at night…
: Draw 3 cards. (Limit once per game.)
Miskatonic.
Orne Library
Victory 1.
4 1
Illus. Nia Kovalevski © 2026 FFG 3/6 141
E N E M Y
Retaliate. (After you fail a skill test while
fighting this enemy, it attacks you.)
 Spend 1  resources: Parley. ( 3).
Humanoid. Syndicate. Elite.
Naomi O’Bannion
Runs This Town
Victory 1.
4 5 2
Each of these cards is worth
one victory point.Credits
Game Design and Development: Josiah “Duke” Harrist and Nicholas Kory
Original Game Design: Nate French and MJ Newman
Producer: Molly Glover and Eric Stanton
Editing: Andrea Dell’Agnese
Proofreading: Kelley Curry
Game Rules Specialist: Alex Werner
Product Line Manager: Gavin Duffy and Caitlyn McGrath
Game Design Manager: Kate Morgan
Cultural and Sensitivity Review: Alanaleilani Connolly and the members
of the FFG Cultural Sensitivity Panel
Arkham Horror Story Review: Philip D. Henry and John Leo
Graphic Design: Ryann Collins, Mercedes Opheim, and Evan Simonet
with Monica Helland and Christopher Hosch
Cover Art: Mauro Dal Bo
Art Direction: Jeff Lee Johnson, Tim Flanders, Stephen Somers, and
Kate Swazee with Jake Murray
Visual Design Manager: Tony Bradt
Quality Assurance Specialist: Zach Tewalthomas
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Matt Diaz
Franchise Development: Andy Christensen, Joe DeSimone, Ness Jack,
Matt Keefe, Charlotte Llewelyn-Wells, Brian Mulcahy, Gwendolyn Nix,
Katrina Ostrander, Sean Ryan, Ashley Stephens, and Nick Tyler
Production Management: Justin Anger and Austin Litzler
Production Coordination: Estelle Gavin and Ember Schwager
Director, Living Card Games: Chris Gerber
Director of Studio Operations: John Franz-Wichlacz
Head of Studio: Jim Cartwright
SVP Lifestyle Games: Bill Altig
Special thanks to Daniel Lovat Clark and Waleed Ma’arouf.
® & © 2026 Fantasy Flight Games. Arkham Horror, Fantasy Flight Games,
the FFG logo, Living Card Game, LCG, and the LCG logo are ® Fantasy Flight
Games. Gamegenic and the Gamegenic logo are ® and © Gamegenic GmbH,
Germany. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1995 West County Road B2,
Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components may
vary from those shown.
Playtesters
Rita Asangarani, Leonard Ash, David Avilés, John Bagley, Tanner Barth,
Gilles Belhassen, Ryan Billington, Brian Blair, Marc Blanchard, Ryan
Blood, Rafa Cerrato, Ann Christensen, Anthony Clark, Aaron Creller,
Shelley Danielle, Ricardo Basilio Donoso, Tiago Basilio Donoso, Johannes
Duckeck, Robert Evans, Nachum Fisch, Charlie Fox, Adam Fraser, Sam
Fuhrman, Alfredo Gómez, Paul Grimes, Angelo Bevilacqua Neves Guidugli,
Richard Harris, Josh Harry, Grégory Henriques, Josh Jones, Bob Juranek,
Álvaro Korta, Christopher Leigh, Craig Lincoln, Jules Mallette, Zacarías
M.Martinez, Josh McCluey, Joseph McNeil, Pax Meier, Sonny Mikszath,
Travis Milam, Christian Møhlenberg, Arthur Rodrigues Moraes, Cliff
Orme, Josh Parrish, Michael Pelfrey, Chad A. Reverman, Tyler Romeo,
Michael Santoroski, Vincent Schwartz, Jimmie Sharp, Zev Shields,
Christopher Smith, Jordi Solera, Addison Stumpf, Tauan Tinti, Deyannira
Tirado, Henrique Trein, Marcelo Trein, Egoitz Uribeetxebarria, Edu V.M,
Paul Wallwork, Owen Weldon, Finian Westergaard, Ben Wiebracht, and
Alex Xöul48
RULEBOOK
Quick Reference
Phase Sequence
1. Mythos phase (skip during the first round of the game)
2. Investigation phase
3. Enemy phase
4. Upkeep phase
Common Keywords and Game Terms
Alert: If an investigator fails a skill test while evading a ready enemy that
has the alert keyword, that enemy attacks that investigator.
Aloof: An aloof enemy does not engage investigators of its own accord, and it
cannot be attacked unless that enemy is engaged with an investigator.
Doomed: If this enemy is defeated, place 1 doom on the current agenda. This
effect can cause the current agenda to advance.
Elusive: After a ready enemy with the elusive keyword attacks or is attacked,
that enemy moves to a connecting location and exhausts.
Fast: A player may play a fast card without spending an action.
Hunter: At the start of the enemy phase, each hunter enemy moves one
location toward the nearest investigator.
Massive: A massive enemy is engaged with each investigator at its location.
Patrol: At the start of the enemy phase, each enemy with the patrol
keyword moves once toward its designated target.
Peril: When an investigator draws a card with the peril keyword, that
investigator cannot confer with or receive assistance from other players
while spawning that card or resolving that card’s revelation ability.
Prey: Indicates which investigator an enemy will engage or pursue if there
are multiple equally valid options.
Retaliate: If an investigator fails a skill test while attacking a ready enemy
that has the retaliate keyword, that enemy attacks that investigator.
Revelation: The investigator who drew this card resolves its text.
Spawn: Indicates where an enemy spawns when drawn.
Surge: After an investigator draws and resolves an encounter card that has
the surge keyword, that investigator must draw and resolve another card.
Uses (X): The uses keyword indicates a number of resource tokens to be
placed on the card when it enters play, of a specified type (ammo, charges,
etc.). These tokens are used in conjunction with the rest of the card’s ability.
Triggered Abilities
Free Trigger (󲅺): Does not cost an action to use this ability.
Action Trigger (󲅹): Costs an action to use this ability.
Reaction Trigger (󲆍): Does not cost an action, but this ability can only be
used when its triggering condition is met.
Symbols and Icons
Guardian
Seeker
Mystic
Rogue
Survivor
󲅶 󲅸 󲅷 󲅴 󲅵
Character Classes
Willpower 󲅰
Intellect 󲅲
Combat 󲅳
Agility 󲅱
Wild ?
Skills
Per Investigator 󲆃
Reference the revealed
token’s matching
symbol on the
scenario reference
card and resolve the
corresponding ability.
Reference the
Elder Sign investigator’s ability. 󲅿
The investigator
Autofail automatically fails. 󲅽
Skull 󲅻
Cultist 󲅼
Tablet 󲆀
Elder Thing 󲅾
Action Types
Fight (). Fight an engaged enemy
at your location, using .
Evade (). Evade an engaged
enemy at your location, using .
Investigate (). Investigate your
location using .
Engage. Engage an enemy at your
current location.
Draw. Draw 1 card.
Move. Move to a connecting
location.
Resource. Gain 1 resource.
Activate. Activate an󲅹ability.
Play. Play a card from your hand,
paying its cost.
Parley. Parley an enemy at your
location using a card ability.
Resign. Remove your investigator
from the game using a card ability.
Chaos Tokens